the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	00	Sage Research Methods The Content Analysis Guidebook For the most optimal reading experience we recommend using our website.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	00	A free-to-view version of this content is available by clicking on this link, which includes an easy-to-navigate-and-search-entry, and may also include videos, embedded datasets, downloadable datasets, interactive questions, audio content, and downloadable tables and resources.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	00	Author: Kimberly A Neuendorf Pub.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	00	Date: 2019 Product: Sage Research Methods DOI: https://doi.org/10.4135/9781071802878 Methods: Content analysis, Measurement, Coding Keywords: stimuli Disciplines: Business and Management, Communication and Media Studies, Political Science and International Relations, Psychology, Social Policy and Public Policy, Sociology Access Date: November 26, 2023 Publishing Company: SAGE Publications, Inc City: Thousand Oaks Online ISBN: 9781071802878 © 2019 SAGE Publications, Inc All Rights Reserved.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	Variables and Predictions Scholarly work generally proceeds from theory, with research questions, hypotheses, or both derived directly from the theory.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	This is the ideal, an application of the hypothetico-deductive model of science.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	In this model, hypotheses and research questions will flow from theory, and the variables that need to be measured will be apparent in these predictions and questions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	A discussion of formats for hypotheses and research questions is provided later in this chapter.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	In actuality, a review of the content analysis literature indicates that many content analyses do not test formal hypotheses or research questions, and those that do often do not provide a real test of theory.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	In an overview of studies reviewing published content analyses, Manganello and Fishbein concluded that “theory is used in less than half of content analysis studies published in communication journals” (2009, p 5).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	In a follow-up systematic examination of health media content analyses conducted between 1985 and 2005, Manganello and Blake (2010) found that 55% of the 441 journal articles they examined cited at least one theory or model, although this varied by type of journal, with 72% of articles in communication journals invoking theory, but only 38% of articles in health journals basing their studies on theory.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	There are some indications that the situation may be improving over time, with greater attention paid to theoretic grounding of content analyses (see, eg., Rudy, Popova, & Linz, 2011).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	Regardless, content analyses are frequently driven by curiosity or practicality.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	It is recommended that even such nontheoretic investigations follow a carefully considered process in the selection of what aspects of the content—what variables—will be studied.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	Such a process is offered here.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	Although the content analyst should consult both scholarly literature and applied research and use theory as a guide whenever possible, she or he is, in fact, the boss,1 the final authority on what content needs to be examined and what variables ought to be tapped.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	This chapter presents a set of approaches for selecting variables that will be well-grounded.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	As indicated in Chapter 2, a variable is a definable and measurable concept2 that varies; that is, it holds different values for different individual cases or units.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	As indicated in Chapter 1, variables may be delineated as latent or manifest variables and as content/substance or form variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	01	Strictly speaking, variables to be included in a content analysis reside in the message rather than the source or receiver (although linking message variables to source or receiver variables is endorsed; see Chapter 2).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Page 2 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Identifying Critical Variables A useful way to approach the selection of content analysis variables is to consider what constitute critical variables—those features that are vital to a comprehensive understanding of (a) the message pool (b) in the specific medium under investigation.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Identifying such critical features is both painstaking and creative.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Failure to identify all the form and content/substance variables that distinguish a set of messages can result in misleading outcomes.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	For example, the Kalis and Neuendorf (1989) study outlined in Box 4.1 would have resulted in incomplete conclusions without the measurement of two key formal feature variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Box 4.1 The Critical Variables That Almost Got Away Camera Technique in Music Videos In the 1980s, there was much criticism of the ways in which women were portrayed in music videos (Vincent, Davis, & Boruszkowski, 1987), at that time, one of the fastest-growing segments in the media industries.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Kalis and Neuendorf (1989) undertook a content analysis of a probability sample of MTV videos to assess the presence and treatment of aggressive cues—objects and actions with violent or aggressive meaning.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	Among other things, the researchers examined each instance in which an initiator or recipient of an aggressive action could be identified.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	The basic findings of the study were surprising in light of the prevailing wisdom regarding women’s images in music videos, which pronounced that women were disproportionately shown as victims of violence.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	The study found that females were less frequently the recipients of aggressive acts than were males and that females actually were somewhat more likely to be initiators than recipients.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	But an interesting explanation for this unexpected outcome was in sight.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	The researchers had included variables that they considered critical to a study of the fast-paced medium.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	For every shot in which an aggressive act was shown, they measured the focal length of the camera shot (i.e., long shot, medium shot, close-up, or extreme close-up) at the beginning and the end of the shot.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	They also measured the length of each shot in seconds, as part of their general investigation of pacing (i.e., quickness of editing) of the videos.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	02	The findings relevant to these additional variables provided a possible explanation for the public salience of female-targeted aggression in music videos.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	When females were the targets of aggression, they were disPage 3 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	played on the screen for a significantly longer period of time (3.1 seconds on average, compared with 2.0 seconds for a shot containing a male victim).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	Also, females were more likely than males to be shown in closeup or extreme close-up as targets of aggression.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	This visual emphasis on female victimization may well have contributed to the actions becoming more memorable to viewers and hence a subject of popular criticism.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	What’s important to note is that without paying close attention to form variables that are critical to the medium (i.e., shot scale and shot length), this finding of focal prominence for female victims would never have been discovered.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	A researcher may frame the search for variables at a very general level or at a much more specific and applied level.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	A comprehensive study should do both.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	At the most general level, one may always consider the possibility of universal variables—that is, characteristics that differentiate all stimuli.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	At the most specific level, the researcher needs to examine the features that distinguish that particular message type as conveyed in that particular medium.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	The sections that follow describe four recommended techniques for selecting variables for a content analysis3: 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	A consideration of universal variables 2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	Using theory and past research for variable collection 3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	A grounded or “emergent” process of variable identification 4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	Attempting to find medium-specific critical variables A Consideration of Universal Variables All stimuli may be described by a variety of factors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	The quest for a finite set of universal variables that may be applied to all stimuli (including message units) has been led primarily by cognitive psychologists, linguists, and anthropologists.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	03	Their efforts are worth examining.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Osgood, Suci, and Tannenbaum (1957) were among the first to try to measure universal dimensions of “meaning.” Their classic three primary dimensions of semantic meaning (i.e., how individuals discriminate Page 4 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	among concepts)—evaluation, potency, and activity—have served as the basis for measurement in countless social and behavioral science studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Their “semantic differential”—using paired concepts to measure evaluation (e.g., good ↔ bad), potency (e.g., strong ↔ weak), and activity (e.g., active ↔ passive)—has become a standard in experimental and survey research (Heise, 1965).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	The work of Marks (1978) has attempted to establish evidence of a uniformity in the way in which human senses (hearing, sight, taste, smell, touch) operate.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	In Unity of the Senses, he reviews classic considerations of what he terms primary qualities of objects from such sources as Galileo and Locke, and relying quite centrally on the writings of Aristotle, he proceeds to develop a perspective in which human senses all operate in parallel fashion.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	According to Marks, a stimulus may be perceived by seeing it or by feeling it, for example, but these experiences will have the same dimensions.4 No matter which sense is engaged, the stimulus is perceived according to certain “analogous sensory attributes.” They are as follows (with examples of potential content analysis applications in parentheses): 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Extension: The apparent spatial magnitude of a sensation (e.g., how much physical space is revealed in a shot in a movie, possibly by panning or tracking) 2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Intensity: The apparent strength of a sensation (e.g., how close up the shot is) 3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Brightness: The apparent piquancy of a sensation (e.g., the black–white contrast of the shot or the brilliance of the colors) 4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Quality: A term covering a diverse set of attributes, proposed by philosophers of earlier centuries, which Marks generally dismisses as a universal characteristic of sensation (e.g., the mise-en-scène, or placement of elements in the shot; p 52) In addition, Marks considers duration as a fifth attribute (from 19th-century work by Külpe; eg., how long a shot in a movie lasts).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Although Marks and his intellectual forebears were more interested in describing the individual’s experience than in finding characteristics of the stimulus itself, these features give us a starting point.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	They provide us with a general template for thinking about critical variables for any content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	Alternatively, Marks (1978) and others have used a grounded approach in discovering how people differentiate among stimuli.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	04	By presenting individuals with a range of stimuli and asking them to report perceived distances among the stimuli in multidimensional cognitive space, researchers can look at the resultant dimensions (McIsaac, Mosley, & Story, 1984; Melara, Marks, & Potts, 1993).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	For example, when randomly selected landscape photographs were presented to 52 subjects, five dimensions of meaning were identified: (a) open Page 5 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	versus enclosed, (b) barren versus verdant, (c) land versus water, (d) natural versus human influence, and (e) entry path versus no entry path (Fenton, 1985).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	These dimensions are clearly more applied (i.e., specific to photography and specific to outdoor scenes) than truly universal.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	In his classic work, Aesthetics and Psychobiology, Berlyne (1971) proposes a set of aesthetic universals.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	After a consideration of features similar to Marks’s (1978) analogous sensory attributes (i.e., “psychophysical variables” such as intensity, size, color, visual forms, and auditory pitch) and “ecological properties” that describe the meaningfulness of the stimulus, Berlyne (1971) adds his “collative” variables, which are the “irreducibly essential ingredients of art and of whatever else is aesthetically appealing” (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	viii).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	The collative variables do seem to go beyond features that reside entirely within the stimulus (Cupchik & Berlyne, 1979) and might be described as features that reside in an interaction between the stimulus and the individual perceiving the stimulus (so we must be cautious in adapting them to a content analysis).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Others have described them as the combining of “two present features of a stimulus” or the “comparison of a stimulus with a prior expectation” (Martindale, Moore, & Borkum, 1990, p 54).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Berlyne’s (1971) aesthetically relevant collative variables follow: 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Novelty 2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Uncertainty and surprisingness 3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	[Subjective] Complexity 4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Relationships among the first three variables (notably, a recognized interaction between novelty and perceived complexity) Although the efforts of these various scholars to identify universal variables give us much food for thought, many of their contributions are aimed at the receiver’s response to stimuli or messages, rather than at capturing universal features of the messages themselves.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	It is only by adapting their efforts that universal message variables may emerge.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	There may indeed be certain variables, perhaps derived from the more philosophical considerations presented earlier, that are critical for all message studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	One of the most likely of such candidates seems to be message complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Box 4.2 provides a focus on this concept.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	Obviously, no master list of universal variables exists.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	And even if one were proposed, the researcher must make the decision as to the relevance of each variable to the task at hand.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	That is, even if a variable is deemed measurable and discriminable for all message stimuli, its utility and predictive power may be nil in a given instance of research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	05	And cultural differences in how receivers respond to so-called universal variables raise questions of their meaning.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	For example, although “color” is proposed by Berlyne (1971) as a universal Page 6 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	psychophysical variable, and few would dispute its importance in describing all object stimuli, its meaning and impact have been shown to vary substantially across cultures (Lechner, Simonoff, & Harrington, 2012) and to differ between the genders (Arthur, Johnson, & Young, 2007).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	For example, Hupka et al.’s (1997) study of five nationalities found significant differences, such as which color connotes envy (United States, green; Russia, black) and which color indicates jealousy (United States, red; Russia, black).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	Using Theory and Past Research for Variable Collection Generally speaking, there are three ways in which theory and past research may be employed: (a) by providing predictions about the origins of messages, (b) by providing predictions about the effects of messages of various types (with ways (a) and (b) providing rationales for the study but usually not providing hypotheses that are testable by a content analysis alone), and (c) by providing predictions about the relationships among variables within a content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	Variables that must be measured will derive from these predicted relationships.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	The first type of application of theory and research concentrates on Source → Message linkages (S → M, as in Chapter 2).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	Here, relationships between source characteristics and message attributes are predicted.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	For example, Dindia (1987) sought to challenge a set of previous studies that seemed to show that men interrupt more than do women, and women are interrupted more than are men.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	She based her selection of specific variables—as well as their precise measurements—on the body of interpersonal interaction literature to date.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	The second type of theory and research application may be seen as stemming from Message → Receiver linkages (M → R, a la Chapter 2).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	Here, theory and past research offer a prediction of such effects (and there may or may not be corresponding research evidence; see Kunkel, 2009, for a discussion of the media effects arena).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	For example, research by Berkowitz (1964, 1973; Berkowitz & LePage, 1967) indicates that general arousal created by one stimulus may have an impact on how the individual responds to another arousing stimulus.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	And tests of this excitation transfer theory have supported the theory’s notion that general physiological arousal can affect one’s subsequent likelihood of behaving aggressively (Gardstrom, 1999; Zillmann, 1971; Zillmann, Johnson, & Day, 2000).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	06	In this vein, supportive research has found that television pacing (i.e., how quickly the shots are edited) can increase the viewer’s overall physiological arousal, which in turn enhances his or her response to violent content within the fast-paced form (Jeffres with Perloff, 1997).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Thus, Page 7 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	the inclusion of the variable of the pacing of video or film editing in a content analysis is important, as it can provide some information as to how the viewer will respond.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Box 4.2 Message Complexity An Example of a Potential Universal Variable for Content Analysis There exists quite a bit of psychological research indicating that people respond to a complex stimulus quite differently than they do to a simpler stimulus.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Complexity of a message is related to greater attraction and physiological orientation, even with infants (Berlyne, 1971).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	There is some evidence that deceptive speech is less complex than is honest speech (Zhou et al., 2004), possibly because of the cognitive load required to maintain a false story (Tausczik & Pennebaker, 2010).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Research on cognitive processing of messages has found that secondary task reaction times (STRTs) are faster during exposure to complex compared to simple messages, an initially counterintuitive finding.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	However, follow-up research has indicated that highly complex messages may “overload” the cognitive system, diverting cognitive resources to a secondary task (Fox, Park, & Lang, 2007; Lang et al., 2006).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Complexity’s relationship to affect has also been examined.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Using Chinese characters and simple brushstrokes as stimuli, Saegert and Jellison (1970) found that with simple stimuli, an inverted-U relationship emerged between exposure and affect, whereas with complex stimuli, exposure and positive affect were positively related (see also Brentar, Neuendorf, and Armstrong, 1994).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	That is, with simple stimuli, there may be wear-out, when the receiver gets tired of the stimulus.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	With a more complex stimulus, the more you see it, the more you like it.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Further, complexity seems to be an important moderating variable to consider in studies of persuasion.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	For example, Potter and Choi (2006) found radio advertising messages higher in auditory structural complexity to be better remembered and eliciting greater physiological arousal and better attitudes toward the message.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	However, they found no impact on attitudes toward the ad claims.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Conceptualizations of the construct of complexity have varied.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	07	Within the literature studying reactions to mediated messages, the limited capacity model of mediated message processing (LCMP; Lang, 2000) assumes that a receiver’s level of cognitive processing depends not only on resources allocated (RA) but also on the resources required (RR) by the message; the latter is often related to the complexity of the message.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	In this Page 8 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	research tradition, complexity is conceptualized as the type, amount, speed, and intricacy of information presented (Buijzen, Van Reijmersdal, & Owen, 2010, p 440).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Invoking the considerable contribution of information theory to the study of communication and messages, Watt and Welch (1983) proposed considering “degree of complexity” along a continuum.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	They drew on the work of Moles (1968) to show that the degree of complexity of a concept may range from simple (ordered, predictable, structured) to complex (disordered, unpredictable, random; Watt & Welch, 1983, p 78).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Similarly, Krull (1983) notes that “the information theory way of assessing complexity [entropy] is closely related to the concept of statistical variance,” with a focus on variations in the cognitive processing load that moving image content demands (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	106).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Thus, according to these conceptualizations, complexity includes the characteristic of information potential, something that is clearly important in all message studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Watt and Welch (1983) further distinguished between static and dynamic complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Static complexity is the level of randomness of the stimulus at a single point in time.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Dynamic complexity is the amount of variation of a stimulus over time.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	For example, a photograph may have high static complexity but will have zero dynamic complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	A video presentation that consists of a series of very simple images (each with low static complexity) could have high dynamic complexity if it is edited at a very quick or uneven pace.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	The measurement of the complexity of messages has had a varied history.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	Complexity of the written word has been measured by human and computer coding in a wide variety of contexts.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	A common indexing of complexity is the assessment of “readability,” indicating the approximate grade level of a text—quite literally, sixth grade, eighth grade, and so forth.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	The readability level is indexed by looking at such markers as average word length, average sentence length, and perhaps variety of words used (e.g., number of unique words in a text divided by the total number of words in the text, called the “type/token” ratio).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	There are a number of standard readability index formulas.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	For instance, the venerable Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level assessment is widely available in word-processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word), although its consistency in such applications has been questioned (Mailloux et al., 1995).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	08	And the SMOG Readability formula (the “Simple Measure of Gobbledygook”; McLaughlin, 1969) has been used broadly in the medical fields.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Further, the integrative, or cognitive, complexity of the source has been assessed via human-coded content analyses of political speech- Page 9 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	es, interviews, personal letters, and diplomatic documents (Lee & Peterson, 1997).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	And, CATA programs such as Diction (www.dictionsoftware.com) and LIWC (www.liwc.net; Tausczik & Pennebaker, 2010) include automated indexes of verbal complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	The measurement of complexity in the moving image has been more limited.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	In their studies of children’s responses to television, Watt and Welch (1983) proposed methods of measuring both static and dynamic visual complexity on a video screen, by overlaying a grid and measuring differences in brightness (luminance) or color (chrominance) between adjacent cells in the grid.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Their technique has not been picked up for use, but that may change, with variations made possible by emerging technologies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	There is great potential for future computer coding of complexity, notably in the age of digital video (where looking for vector movement in MPEG compression could serve as a measure of dynamic visual complexity) and with the data stream function of metadata (EBU/SMPTE Task Force, 1998), although as noted in Chapter 7, the potential of metadata in this regard has not yet been reached.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Some efforts have been made to “code,” via human inspection, the visual complexity of moving image content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	For example, Lang et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	(2006) have proposed a seven-dimensional scheme of “information introduced” (I2) at each transition in a moving image sequence: object change, novelty, relatedness, distance, perspective, emotion, and form change.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	These researchers and others to follow (e.g., Norris et al., 2012) have used this coding scheme in the construction of experimental stimuli representing different levels of visual complexity, and at least one researcher has adapted this scheme for content analysis (De Ros, 2008).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	As noted in Chapter 7, there have been some attempts to use video search software to tap particular types of visual complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Kearns and O’Connor (2004) used Autonomy Virage software to help demarcate a video stream and measure its dynamic visual complexity (for which they use the term entropy, harkening back to 1974 work by Watt and Krull).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Watt and Welch’s (1983) studies on children and television have shown the utility of typologizing the construct of complexity into different types for mediated communication—audio versus visual, static versus dynamic.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	They found, for example, that children’s visual attention to TV programming (i.e., Sesame Street and Mr.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	09	Rogers’ Neighborhood, in their studies) was related to greater audio static complexity, greater audio dynamic complexity, and greater video dynamic complexity but not to greater video static complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Children’s recognition of a featured object from the program was found to be related to greater audio dynamic complexity and Page 10 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	greater video dynamic complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Recall of information from the program was found to be related to greater audio static complexity—and to lower levels of audio dynamic complexity, video static complexity, and video complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Simply put, the overall construct of complexity has been shown to be important to understanding how children process the moving image, although it matters which types of complexity are involved.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	And some of the very complexity factors that attract kids’ attention—such as quick variations in sound and in images—seem to result in lower recall of information from the content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Early work by Watt and Krull (1974) attempted to identify important markers of auditory complexity in television content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	They settled on two measures: Verbal Incidence Entropy, the number of different speakers in a TV message and the associated difficulty a viewer has in discriminating between them, and Verbal Time Entropy, the amount of time that a viewer is given to make such discriminations—in other words, the duration of a speaker’s voice prior to its ceasing or being replaced by another voice (Potter & Choi, 2006, pp.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	396–397; Watt & Krull, 1974).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Subsequent work on auditory complexity has defined it as the extent to which a message contains numerous structural features previously shown to cause orienting responses in listeners—for example, voice changes, production effects, sound effects, and music onsets (Potter & Choi, 2006).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	In sum, complexity is a rich construct, linked to cognitive, affective, and physiological outcomes.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Its conceptualizations have been varied, and the corresponding measurements to be found in content analyses have not been broadly applied.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	It might indeed be a “universal” construct worthy of wider consideration.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Manganello and Fishbein (2009) note that in the area of health behaviors, the motivation to analyze media messages has often been based on two theoretical perspectives—George Gerbner’s cultivation theory (Morgan, Shanahan, & Signorielli, 2009) and Albert Bandura’s social learning and social cognitive theories (Bandura, 2009).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Taken together, the theories indicate that consistent patterns of messages will have impacts on receivers, particularly under certain conditions of portrayal, such as rewarded behaviors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	10	Numerous content analysts have used one or both of these message effects theories as the base from which they have developed their studies, ranging from content analyses of violent behaviors on TV (an early favorite) to content analyses of gender-typed behaviors in the media to content analyses of hazardous activities in films, as well as many others.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Page 11 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	The third type of theory and research application provides bases for the collection of variables for research questions and hypotheses that may be tested from a content analysis alone (corresponding to simply Message in Chapter 2).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	For example, deriving their constructs from a theory of relational communication, Rogers and Farace (1975) developed measures of the symmetry, transitory nature, and complementarity of control in human face-to-face interaction.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Their conceptual bases included Bateson (1958) and Watzlawick, Beavin, and Jackson (1967).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	In application, their coding scheme allowed for the analysis of the behaviors in individual speakers, the interactions between members of a dyad, and the systemic aspects of the communication process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Another example is the rather interesting applications of Erving Goffman’s (1959, 1979) theory of self-presentation to a number of varied content analyses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Raban (2009) examined questions and answers on the now-defunct Google Answers Q&A web site, finding that the online presentation of implicit, but not explicit, social cues by a questioner was related to a responder providing social and monetary feedback.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Mager and Helgeson (2011) developed a coding scheme for the analysis of magazine ads over a 50-year period, including variables derived from Goffman’s cultural positioning framework.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	They found a trend toward objective role portrayals of women, but with women still subordinated to men in Goffman’s “more subtle aspects” of the ads.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Lindner (2004) analyzed women’s images in magazine ads, adapting a set of criteria from Goffman’s suggestions of subtle cues contained within advertising images.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	And Kane (2008; Kane et al., 2009) developed self-presentation variables for the study of social media postings, including profile photos, from Goffman’s self-presentation perspective with extensions by Jones (1990), with the surprising finding that reporting dating and serious relationships as a goal was significantly and positively related to the display of intimidation self-presentation behaviors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Replication of Content Analysis Measures Past research can provide not only a guide for theory, hypotheses, and variables derived from those hypotheses but also precise measures for variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	In a practical sense, it’s often useful to replicate measures from past research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	Using the same measures across studies has the advantage of producing findings that have immediate comparative value across populations, time periods, and so forth.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	11	White and Marsh (2006) have collected examples of the fruitful re-use of content analytic measures and coding schemes in the field of library and information science.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Page 12 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Examples of studies that have fully or in part replicated existing content analysis coding schemes include Hymans’ (2010) analysis of the iconography on the paper currency of 10 Central/East European nations, Coffey and Cleary’s (2011) comparative content analysis of traditional and new (e.g., news crawl) video screen spaces on US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	cable television news networks (CNN, MSNBC, and Fox News Channel), and De Wever et al.’s (2010) interaction analysis of e-discussions with a social constructivist-based scheme that had been used in at least four prior studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Sometimes, a cross-cultural, cross-media, or over-time comparison is desired.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	For example, Oerter et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	(1996) applied a coding scheme to transcripts of interviews about the concept of human nature conducted in four nations (the United States, Indonesia, Japan, and Korea).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	The same analyses had been conducted with participants in Germany, China, Slovenia, and Croatia, allowing the authors to make more sweeping cross-cultural comparisons.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Kunkel et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	(2005) first executed a large-scale content analysis of sexual behaviors on TV (in 1997–1998) and then replicated the analysis three more times (1999–2000, 2001–2002, and 2004–2005) for a longitudinal examination.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Further, as will be described in Chapter 5, there are quite a few “standard” dictionaries for CATA text analysis, which of course have been used repeatedly by researchers using those CATA programs.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Adapting Measures From Noncontent Analytic Study When appropriate content analytic coding schemes or measures are not to be found, the researcher may certainly attempt to adapt measures from other types of studies or analyses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Increasingly, researchers seem to be “translating” variables from survey or experimental work to the content analysis situation.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	For example, Smith (1999) attempted to take items that had previously been widely used to measure the trait characteristics of extraversion and neuroticism and apply them to characters in feature films.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	The translation from subjective, self-report measures to objective, content-analytic assessments was rocky—reliabilities were generally low.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Coders could not agree on how “sociable” or “tense” a film character was.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	On the other hand, some translations have been more successful.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	12	Kolt’s (1996) application of measures of interpersonal initiation strategies to personal ads in newspapers resulted in high reliabilities and a finding of striking similarity between face-to-face and in-print first encounters.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Page 13 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	A number of researchers have successfully adapted measures from the well-known Bem Sex Role Inventory (1981) for content analysis purposes (e.g., Calvert et al., 2003; Eschholz, Bufkin, & Long, 2002; Evans & Davies, 2000; Long et al., 2010).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Another popular area for the adaptation from survey work to content analysis measures is that of cultural values.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Zhang (2009) used the individualism-collectivism framework of Geert Hofstede, as well as existing advertising literature, to adapt measures for a coding scheme consisting of 15 measures of IND-COL values and appeals in a study of Chinese TV ads.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	In her study of social media posts, Lunk (2008) adapted dozens of content analytic measures of individualism/collectivism and masculinity/femininity from observational and survey measures by Mulac, Bradac, and Gibbons (2001), survey indicators reported by Hofstede (2001), analyses of elicited essays by Rubin and Greene (1992), and typologies summarized by Ting-Toomey (2005).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Neuendorf and Skalski (2009) have provided recommendations for the development of content analysis measures from existing survey measures of collective identity, given the dearth of existing coding schemes in that arena.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Beckwith (2009), in his study of protagonists in top US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	movies, used the value descriptors created by Milton Rokeach, but “for legal reasons” did not directly adapt the oft-used Rokeach Value Survey, raising the issue of proprietary measures that cannot be freely adapted.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Much as a survey researcher will use focus group or in-depth interviewing (qualitative techniques) to inform his or her questionnaire construction, so may the content analyst use critical or qualitative observations to execute a “close reading” of the content to identify important constructs that then must be measured quantitatively via a coding scheme.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Further, the in-depth, often contemplative and incisive observations from the literature of critical scholars can provide rich fodder for quantitative studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Quantitative researchers have begun to do this regularly with regard to film content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	As Salomon (1987) has noted, “Film is perhaps one of the most thoroughly analyzed technological media” with a huge number of “philosophical, semiotic, historical, and psychological analyses” having been conducted on film content (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	51).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Yet one could count the number of quantitative content analyses of film conducted prior to the year 2000 on two hands (e.g., Capwell, 1997; Custen, 1992; Ealy, 1991; Pileggi et al., 2000; Powers, Rothman, & Rothman, 1996; Smith, 1999).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	The situation has been changing in recent years, with an increasing number of content analyses of narrative feature films appearing in a range of venues (see Chapter 9 for a capsule review).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	13	Not surprisingly, nearly all these content analyses have drawn on the rich history of critical and qualitative study of film.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	For example, Smith (1999) relied heavily on the feminist and historiographic literatures Page 14 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	on women’s films in her examination of role portrayals of the two genders in top-grossing US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	movies of the 1930s, 1940s, and 1990s.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	Janstova (2006) derived her research questions and her coding scheme variables from literatures on the auteur theory of film production, as well as specific critical works that analyzed auteur Jane Campion, the particular focus of Janstova’s research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	And Spicer (2012) relied on the critical/cultural literature on the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	movie Western and also scholarly writings on the films of John Ford to make decisions about useful content analytic strategies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	In each instance, some of the critical/cultural source material’s expectations were borne out, and others were not, indicating that content analysis is not inherently redundant with critical analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	Of course, nonacademic sources may also be tapped as possible sources for relevant measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	Cho et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	(2010) developed the coding scheme for their study of coverage of tanning and skin cancer in articles in female-targeted magazines in part from public education literature on skin cancer prevention and detection provided by the American Cancer Society and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	Many comprehensive studies gather variables from a wide range of noncontent analysis sources.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	Based on numerous analyses of the cultural values of various world populations, Prominski (2006) developed a 151-measure coding scheme for the analysis of cultural values evident in advertising in indigenous Russian women’s magazines and US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	women’s magazines published in the United States and published in Russia.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	The past works that Prominski pulled from for these measures were not content analyses, but rather theoretic pieces, cultural studies, and surveys of cultural members, requiring the researcher to “translate” from a wide range of materials to the content analysis process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	A Grounded or Emergent Process of Variable Identification When existing theory or research literature cannot give a complete picture of the message pool, the researcher may take a more practical approach.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	The researcher may need to immerse himself or herself in the world of the message pool and conduct a qualitative scrutiny of a representative subset of the content to be examined.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	14	In this way, variables emerge inductively from the message pool, and the investigator is wellgrounded in the reality of the messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	Quite simply, the researcher needs to “go native.” For example, if one wants to content analyze relationship development among soap opera characters, one needs to become, Page 15 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	at least temporarily, a soap fan.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	And to analyze nonverbal styles of stand-up comics, one has to nominally become a connoisseur of comedy.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	As this process is one of induction, this temporarily takes us outside of the hypothetico-deductive model of scientific enterprise, as described in Chapter 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	Failure to identify key variables that typical message receivers would consider critical, and failure to develop a full understanding of the variables in their context, can lead to trivial or embarrassing findings.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	For example, this author once heard a presentation in which the researcher revealed that none of the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	TV broadcast commercials in their sample were spots for hard liquor.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	At that time, the National Association of Broadcasters Television Code prohibited the broadcast of such spots, something anyone with even a passing familiarity with the broadcasting industry would have known.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	Content analysts should acquaint themselves with professional standards and guidelines for media content studies (e.g., Gibson, 1991; Kindem, 1987).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	To prevent gaffes and more serious problems, the researcher may wish to invite a visiting committee of working professionals to comment on the research effort before the coding scheme is finalized.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	Often, these pros are pleased to be asked, and the research can only be enhanced by their contributions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	And we shouldn’t forget the frontline people.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	A study of intake interviews at a shelter for at-risk women may benefit more from the input of the interviewers than from the input of administrators.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	However, a potential problem with identifying emergent variables via immersion is that the researcher may not be able to see all the ways in which the messages vary.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	For example, if you read every news article in your daily paper, would you be able to identify all the myriad ways in which they varied? And even simple variations may be difficult to sort out.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	Garner (1978) demonstrated how a small number of very simple variables can result in stimuli that seem complicated and diverse.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	This is similar to what would come to be identified as chaos theory (Gleick, 1987), wherein complex stimuli may arise from simple rules.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	An illustration may show how easy—and how difficult—it may be to discern emergent variables from the stimuli themselves.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	For example, the four images shown in Figure 4.1 are differentiated by two variables, each holding two different values.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	If this figure were our message pool, we’d have no problem identifying all the variables that differentiate the images; they are (a) size (large vs.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	small) and (b) shape (diamond vs.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	15	star).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	Page 16 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	Now, how about the images in Figure 4.2? Figure 4.1 Four Images and Two Variables Figure 4.2 More Images and More Variables Here, the underlying variables that differentiate the images are not so apparent.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	Such a challenge can be frustrating, but it may also stimulate the researcher’s creativity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	It’s like a puzzle (and the answer to this one can be found in an endnote5).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	What’s important to notice is that the diversity shown in the set of images in Figure 4.2 is the result of only four variables, each holding only two values.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	16	Of course, even if the researcher discovers all the ways in which the messages vary (an unlikely scenario), this does not mean that all those variables need to be included in a study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	The researcher still needs to engage in critical thought to decide what variables are essential to the testing of hypotheses or research quesPage 17 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	tions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	One particular application of content analysis that often depends upon emergent variables is that of coding of open-ended responses to surveys, focus group transcripts, or elicited essays.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	In a typical example, Knobloch (2008) surveyed 85 married adults via a very open-ended instrument, asking about issues of uncertainty in their marriages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	Twelve themes were inductively derived from the data (e.g., having and raising children, finances, sex, in-laws and extended family), and then a coding scheme describing the themes was devised.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	Two coders who were blind to the goals of the study were trained and worked independently to code the open-ended responses, achieving acceptable reliability.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	Another example shows a purposeful balance between variables pulled inductively from open-ended responses and variables selected for practical reasons—an interview survey of nonoffending caregivers and youths who had experienced sexual abuse included variables that were emergent and those that were included because they represented expressed “areas of concern for professionals in the field about child abuse investigations (e.g., interview environment, cooperation between investigators)” (Jones et al., 2010, p 298).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	Attempting to Find Medium-Specific Critical Variables Many content analyses examine messages within a medium, an intermediary device or context through which a message flows from source to receiver.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	Much effort has been expended trying to describe what critical variables distinguish each communication medium.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	From Bretz’s (1971) quaintly precise descriptions of such media as filmstrips and “telewriting” (in which handwriting and voice are both transmitted by telephone lines; p 117) to efforts to describe factors that distinguished pages and sites on the early Internet (Bauer & Scharl, 2000; Ghose & Dou, 1998) to more contemporary attempts at defining “interactive media” (McMillan & Hwang, 2002; see also Chapter 7 of this volume), the many efforts to encapsulate each medium have failed to result in standard lists and definitions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	17	This leaves the content analyst with the task of using a combination of the past research and emergent processes, described in the previous two sections, to make a roster of plausible medium-specific critical variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	There are two main issues at hand when trying to establish what medium-specific critical variables are appropriate for a content analysis study: (a) What is the nature of the medium of the messages? And (b) what variables are particular or pertinent to studies of messages found in that medium? Page 18 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Defining the Medium This may seem a simple task; as noted, though, it is not.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	No standard definition of, say, television exists.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Try to itemize all the characteristics of television that make it TV.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	It’s tough to do, and no two persons’ lists will be identical.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Notably, this definitional process has become increasingly difficult with the introduction of alternative delivery systems—for example, we can watch “TV” via broadcasting, cable, archived DVD/Blu-ray sets, or online streaming (on a computer, gaming console, or mobile device).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Consider media philosopher Marshall McLuhan’s (1989) broad-ranging definitions of media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	He maintained that media are essentially defined by their extension of the human senses and that the medium is the message, to quote the phrase he made famous.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Yet his definitions of media were quite personal and iconoclastic, with titles such as “tactile television.” Despite renewed interest in McLuhan’s work, largely because of the fulfilment of his prediction of the “global village,” his definitions of media have not become standard.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Several scholars have tried to catalog available or even hypothetical media technologies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Bretz (1971) attempted to provide an exhaustive list and classification of media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	He argued that “since communication media are all the product of man’s [sic] inventiveness, there is no natural relationship among them to discover; we must choose some artificial means of classification” (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	61).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	His chosen categorization scheme put media into seven categories: (a) audio-motion-visual, (b) audio-still-visual, (c) audio-semi-motion, (d) motion-visual, (e) still-visual, (f) audio, and (g) print.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	He gave an additional dimension of telemedia versus recording media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Furthermore, he held that individual media may be distinguished from one another by two additional criteria: (a) if they use different combinations of the ways of representing information (sound, picture, line, graphics, print, motion) and (b) if they are based on different hardware.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Following this, Heeter (1986) developed definitions for 52 “hypothetical media systems,” empirically describing them by attributes of function, channel, and interactivity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	Neuendorf, Brentar, and Porco (1990) captured respondents’ perceptions about 15 media types and 10 sensory concepts, using multidimensional scaling.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	18	The three primary dimensions found were (a) level of mediatedness, (b) print versus nonprint, and (c) personal/subjective versus impersonal/objective.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Important to the task of content analysis is whether a given medium has characteristics unique to that medium Page 19 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	and therefore especially important to tap.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	In general, media do not have wholly unique characteristics.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	For example, variables related to graphic design (size and color of font, use of photos, subjects of photos, etc.) are applicable to content in magazines, newspapers, television, film, and the Internet.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Variables related to auditory intensity (e.g., use of music, loudness, density and pace of music, paralinguistic aspects of speech) could be applied to studies of audio recordings of speech, CDs, radio, television, film, and the Internet.6 At the very least, these attempts to catalog and differentiate media give us pause to consider what our medium of interest really is and why we might be interested in that medium rather than another.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Finding Critical Variables Appropriate to the Medium There may be both form and content/substance variables that are particularly relevant to a study of messages from a particular medium (Watt, 1979).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Although this text recommends that each researcher assess anew the critical variables specific to his or her medium of choice (i.e., there is no catalog worthy of strong endorsement), looking at some past attempts may be fruitful.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Generally, such attempts at comprehensiveness have focused on form rather than content/substance variables: Huston and Wright (1983) identified “salient formal features” for television in their studies of children’s viewing behavior.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	They included physical activity of characters, rapid pace, variability of scenes, visual special effects, loud music, sound effects, and peculiar or nonhuman voices (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	39).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Huston and Wright presented a continuum of these formal features, ranging from “purely syntactic” (features that structure the flow of content) to “integrally related to content understanding” (features that provide modes of mental representation, supplanting or eliciting cognitive operations, as when a zoom helps the viewer understand the resulting close-up).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	They summarized how the formal features of television influence cognitive processing of content, thus providing more than a simple list of variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Lombard et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	(1997) continued the process of documenting such formal features of television, with additions of their own.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	19	Their well-developed coding scheme, aimed at comprehensiveness (available at The Content Analysis Guidebook Online), included sections on transitions, pace, camera techniques, object or entity movement, text and graphics, and special effects.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Page 20 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Gagnard and Morris’s (1988) subtitle tells it all—an “analysis of 151 executional variables.” Their study of TV commercials that had received CLIO awards was an attempt to exhaustively catalog variables relevant to substance and form.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Blake et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	(2010) have attempted to inventory variables that are essential for an understanding of e-commerce web sites.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Their compilation of 55 factors, a combination of both form and substance elements, is specific to online shopping but could serve as a starting point for studies of other online environments.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	With the increasing fusion of what were once discreet media, the effort to define critical medium-specific features becomes ever more problematic.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	“Media convergence,” something which everyone agrees has happened, has had different definitions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Many scholars see media convergence as the merging of hardware and software for the production, distribution, and use of message content—the “coming together of all forms of mediated communications in an electronic, digital form, driven by computers and enabled by network technology” (Pavlik, 1998, p 134; see also Dupagne & Garrison, 2009).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Given this perspective, the task of finding critical variables becomes one of tagging and collating important features of the various media that are melding together.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	On the other hand, some scholars define convergence as less related to hardware and more focused on content/substance over form.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Jenkins’ (2006) definition of convergence embraces the idea that content “flows” from delivery system to delivery system, across “multiple media platforms” (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	2).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	We might notice, also, that all seven of Bretz’s media types can be found at any moment on the Internet—one type of hardware is now very capable of presenting all configurations of still/moving/audio/visual messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	In the era of this type of convergence, then, both form and substance factors that transcend the “medium” will most probably loom larger as critical variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	20	Chapter 7 gives further consideration to content analysis in the interactive age.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	Hypotheses and Research Questions In a scholarly content analysis, the independent and dependent variables should be linked in the form of rePage 21 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	search questions or hypotheses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	A hypothesis is a statement of a relationship between/among two or more variables (Babbie, 2013).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	It is an expectation about empirical reality, based on a clear theoretic rationale or on prior evidence.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	The formal testing of a research hypothesis is a deductive process—progressing from theory to derived hypothesis to the testing of that hypothesis, the results of which reflect on the original theory (supporting or failing to support the theory).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	Lacking a strong theoretic basis for a firmly stated prediction about the relationship between/among variables, the researcher can only formulate research questions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	A research question is a query about empirical reality, typically driven by theory or prior observation, which might be nonscientific.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	A rigorous adherence to the guidelines of the scientific method would include a consideration of the null hypothesis for each formal research hypothesis stated.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	A null hypothesis is the logical opposite of a predicted research hypothesis; it is the hypothesis that includes a prediction of no relationship between or among variables (Babbie, 2013).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	For example, a research hypothesis might state, “Mentally ill characters on television are more likely to be violent criminals than are the mentally ill in the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	population” (Diefenbach, 1997, p 292).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	The corresponding null hypothesis would be, “Mentally ill characters on television are equally or less likely to be violent criminals than are the mentally ill in the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	population.” A statistical test that supports the research hypothesis would most properly be seen as allowing us to say that we “reject the null hypothesis.” A statistical test that does not support the research hypothesis would prompt us to say that we “fail to reject the null hypothesis.” While null hypotheses are normally not stated within a research article or report, they are always underlying the logic of the testing of research hypotheses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	Even in the instance of non-scholarly content analyses, it is recommended that careful research questions and/or research hypotheses be made.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	This process ensures a logical progression from conceptualization of an issue through measurement and results that address what the researcher has in mind.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	Conceptual Definitions In the process of writing hypotheses and research questions, each variable (independent and dependent) must be carefully defined.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	This dictionary-type definition is called the conceptual definition of the variable.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	The conceptual definition process is vital to the research process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	A conceptual definition is a declaration by the researcher as to exactly what she or he wishes to study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	21	Composing conceptual definitions forces the researcher to think critically about the nature of her or his study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Each conceptual definition is a guide to the Page 22 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	subsequent measurement of that variable—the operationalization (covered in Chapter 5).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	The conceptual definition and operationalization need to match; this matching is what many call internal validity (Babbie, 2013; Campbell & Stanley, 1963).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	As an illustration, consider the conceptual definition of sex roles adopted by Chu and McIntyre (1995) for their study of children’s cartoons in Hong Kong (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	206; from Durkin, 1985): “The collection of behaviors or activities that a given society deems more appropriate to members of one sex than to members of the other sex.” Chu and McIntyre’s operationalization of this conceptual variable consisted of no fewer than 39 measures, each of which fit within the conceptual definition (thus providing internal validity).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	The operationalizations (measures) included one occupational role, 17 personality traits (e.g., rough, obedient), seven appearance traits (e.g., hair length, wearing a dress), 11 activity preferences and skills (e.g., sports), and three societal and familial power roles (e.g., final decision-maker).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Notice that the specifics of the conceptual definition served as a guide to the researchers: “Collection” implied multiple indicators rather than an overall perceptual measure, “behaviors or activities” demanded the measurement of manifest characteristics rather than internal states, “society deems” required that the researchers discover the current cultural norms for the society under study, and the nondirectional phrase “appropriate to members of one sex than to members of the other” indicated that sex roles for both males and females were to be studied.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Additional examples of conceptual definitions appearing in the content analysis literature follow.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Rumination: “The tendency to think nonproductively about negative affects, situations, and attributions” (in a study of the speeches, letters, and diary entries of Churchill, Hitler, Roosevelt, and Stalin; Satterfield, 1998, p 670) 2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Climate: “Employee perceptions of one or more strategic imperatives made manifest through work place routines and rewards” (in a study of organizational service climate; Schneider et al., 1992, p 705) 3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Risk information: “That which links an environmental contaminant to harmful effects on human health (a ‘risk linkage’)” (in a study of local newspaper environmental news; Griffin & Dunwoody, 1997, p 368) 4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	22	Sexual suggestiveness: “The Freudian interpretation of ‘having or possessing sexual stimuli that triggers or arouses ideas about sex in a person’s mind’” (in a study of magazine advertising; Pokrywczynski, 1988, p 758) 5.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	Film motif: “Any formal element repeated from film history or from the film itself whose repetition Page 23 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	draws attention to an unfolding thematic statement” (drawing from film production textbooks for a study of contemporary films; Janstova, 2006, p 34) 6.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	Disrespectful behaviors: Behaviors that demonstrate “lack of respect; discourtesy; rudeness” or “to regard or treat without respect; with contempt or rudeness” (in a study of disrespectful behaviors in US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	live-action children’s television; Brown, 2011, p 10) Each conceptual definition guides the researcher through the process of measurement.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	In fact, conceptual definitions often appear in whole or in part in codebooks, for the guidance of the coders.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	Hypotheses Formal hypotheses that link variables of interest should optimally be based on theory.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	However, predictive statements are often presented in the content analysis literature based simply on past research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	Although hypotheses may take a variety of forms, there are two commonly occurring formats—(a) a covariation/correspondence relationship (e.g., “The more X, the more Y,” or “The more X, the less Y,” where X is an independent variable and Y is a dependent variable) and (b) a group difference relationship (e.g., “Group A will be higher on Y than will Group B,” in which the grouping variable is an independent variable).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	Examples of covariation/correspondence relationship hypotheses: A1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	“There is a negative relationship between a manager’s dominance of the subordinate in their communication and subordinate’s perception of decisional involvement.” (Fairhurst et al., 1987, p 399) A2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	“Women who possess predominantly neonate [childlike] facial features will be more preferred during social and economic good times and less preferred during social and economic hard times.” (Pettijohn & Tesser, 1999, p 232; their study examined photographs of popular US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	film actresses between the years 1932 and 1995) Examples of group difference relationship hypotheses: B1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	23	“Commercials run in the Dominican Republic differ from those run in the United States in the frequency with which music is used.” (Murray & Murray, 1996, p 55) B2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	“There are more collectivist orientations in Chinese than in Western and non-Chinese East Asian Page 24 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	product commercials.” (Zhang, 2009, p 634) B3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	“The color palette of toys [on the Disney Story web site] will reflect gender stereotypes, such that pastel colored toys will be more likely to be for ‘girls only’ than for ‘boys only,’ and bold colored toys will be more likely to be for ‘boys only’ than for ‘girls only.’” (Auster & Mansbach, 2012, p 378) B4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	“Compared to incumbents, challengers will employ significantly more negative rhetoric and provide more opportunities for voters to engage with the campaign (i.e., through interactive Internet technologies).” (Druckman, Kifer, & Parkin, 2009, p 344) B5.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	“Men’s graffiti will contain a greater amount of insulting (antiethnic, sexist, and antigay), sexual, and scatological references, and women’s graffiti will contain a greater amount of romantic content.” (Schreer & Strichartz, 1997, p 1068) Notice how most of the foregoing hypotheses specify the directionality of the relationships among variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	These are directional hypotheses, predicting either a positive or negative relationship between variables (and are testable via one-tailed statistical tests).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	The sole nondirectional hypothesis in the examples is B1, which posits differences but not the direction of the differences.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	Findings that commercials in the Dominican Republic use music more frequently than those in the United States would support Hypothesis B1; so would findings that commercials in the Dominican Republic use music less frequently.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	24	Also notice that some of the examples are bivariate hypotheses, with one independent and one dependent variable (A1, A2, B1, B2, and B3), and some are multivariate, with multiple independent and/or multiple dependent variables (B4 and B5).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	Page 25 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	Figure 4.3 Hypothesized Model of Applicant Attraction (adapted from Williamson et al., 2010) Multivariate hypotheses may be expressed as a drawn model, as shown in Figure 4.3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	This model is from a study by Williamson et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	(2010), a fusion of content analysis measures and survey measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	Concepts A and B were content analysis-coded variables for corporate recruitment web sites, and the other two concepts were measured via response surveys of students before viewing corporate web sites (Concept C) and after (Concept D).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	The model hypothesizes that both web site vividness and amount of information will predict job applicant attraction to the firm and that firm reputation will moderate the prediction of attraction by these variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	The researchers used multiple regression to test the model.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	Research Questions When there is no clear theory to drive the research or past studies that have examined the content of interest, research questions may guide the process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	25	As with hypotheses, research questions tend to follow certain formats: (a) a covariation/correspondence relationship between or among independent and dependent variables, (b) a group difference relationship in which an independent variable is a grouping variable, and (c) a strictly descriptive question, in which there is no distinction as to independent and dependent variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	Page 26 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	Examples of covariation/correspondence relationship research questions: C1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Is there an association between physician–patient previous contact and patient domineeringness or dominance?” (Cecil, 1998, p 131) C2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Which of the three independent variables (brand origin, product category, and product usage) exert the biggest effect on dominant cultural values reflected in Chinese and Indian commercials?” (Cheng & Patwardhan, 2010, p 74) C3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Is there a relationship between [popular music] lyrical content and [societal] trends in: a) teen pregnancy, b) sexually transmitted disease, c) engaging in intercourse, d) age at first intercourse, e) number of sexual partners, and f) use of condoms?” (Langdon, 2012, p 23) C4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Is a female character’s end-of-film mortality predicted by her physical characteristics, role prominence, sexual activity, and aggressive predispositions?” (Neuendorf et al., 2010, p 750) Examples of group difference relationship research questions: D1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Will the mean amount of speaking time for African Americans per [TV] advertisement be greater than that of Caucasians for advertisements placed to reach the African American audience?” (Hollerbach, 2009, p 604) D2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Do cable programs more often contain both verbal (explicitly spoken) and implied vulgarities than broadcast network programs?” (Kaye & Sapolsky, 2009, p 26) D3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Do contributions of peer tutors assigned to one of the three training conditions (i.e., multidimensional support, model/coach, control condition) differ with regard to patterns in e-moderating?” (De Smet et al., 2010, p 1169) D4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	“Is there a difference between the types of messages posted during the first half and the second half of the semester?” (Mowrer, 1996, p 219; the study was an analysis of student and instructor communication via computer conferencing.) Notice that the majority of these research questions are nondirectional (and therefore testable via a two-tailed statistical test).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	Research questions C1 through C4, D3, and D4 are nondirectional, while questions D1 and D2 are directional.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	Further, research questions C1, C2, D1, and D3 are bivariate; questions C3, C4, D2, and D4 are multivariate.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	26	Examples of descriptive research questions: E1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	“How much coverage of women’s and men’s basketball was provided by Internet sport media Page 27 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	outlets during March Madness?” (Kian, Mondello, & Vincent, 2009, p 480) E2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	“How do US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	textile and apparel manufacturers and wholesalers describe themselves as organizations [online]?” (Ha-Brookshire & Lu, 2010, p 177) E3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	“What issues do women’s and news magazines address concerning breast cancer?” (Andsager & Powers, 1999, p 535) Obviously, each variable included in a hypothesis or research question must be measured via one or more indicators.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	This process of operationalization is discussed in the next chapter.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	Full Reportage The write-up of a content analysis should include some history for the selection of variables in the study, as well as an identification of any portion of the study that is a replication.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	And all hypotheses and/or research questions should be stated clearly, with theoretic backing explained as appropriate.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	Notes for Chapter 4 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	But with this power comes some responsibility.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	The researcher is granted the privilege of being boss only with full disclosure and documentation of all decisions made.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	An explanation of the difference between concept and construct might be helpful.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	A concept is anything that can be conceptualized by humans (i.e., practically any thing).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	A construct is a concept that is by nature not directly observable, such as an emotion or an attitude.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	The special difficulties in measuring unobservable constructs is noteworthy.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	27	3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	A compatible set of recommendations is offered by Smith (1992), whose discussion of thematic content analysis to produce psychometric measures notes three ways in which study variables are to be selected: (a) identified in advance on the basis of theoretical or practical considerations, (b) derived by classifying responses after they are produced by finding the descriptive categories into which most responses fit, and (c) identified by determining the effects on responses of theoretically relevant experimental manipulations or difPage 28 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	ferences in naturally occurring groups (whatever is changed by manipulation or varies among groups is what is to be studied; p 5).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	How Marks (1978) arrives at his conclusions involves the consideration of something quite fascinating, called synesthesia.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	He reports substantial and long-term evidence of this sensory blending, whereby a stimulus perceived with one human sense may result in the activation of a different sense.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The most common sort of cross-modal sensing is apparently “colored hearing”—certain individuals (only a minority, according to Marks) quite literally see colors when they hear various sounds.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The colors vary in a fashion analogous to the sounds; for instance, a “bright” sound, such as the blare of a trumpet, evokes a “bright” color, such as scarlet.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The existence of these analogous variations leads Marks and others to believe that the sensing of a stimulus can be reduced to a very small number of universal features.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The study of synesthesia, popular in the late 19th century and largely ignored in the mid-20th, has enjoyed a “second renaissance” in recent decades (Cytowic & Eagleman, 2009, p 16; see also Baron-Cohen & Harrison, 1997; Cytowic, 1999).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	5.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The 16 images in Figure 4.2 are created from four variables, each holding one of only two values.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The four variables are the four corners: top left, top right, bottom left, and bottom right.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The two values are facing in and facing out.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	Image #2 is created from all four corners facing in.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	Image #14 is generated from all four corners facing out.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The 16 images are the set of all possible combinations of the four corners, either facing in or out.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	The following figure provides a key: SOURCE: Adapted from Garner, 1978.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	6.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	28	In a class exercise, my graduate students decided that the medium with the most fully unique set of characteristics was that of the printed book—its weight and feel and even smell are as yet unduplicated in other media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-4	29	https://doi.org/10.4135/9781071802878 Page 29 of 29 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrk
