the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	00	Sage Research Methods The Content Analysis Guidebook For the most optimal reading experience we recommend using our website.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	00	A free-to-view version of this content is available by clicking on this link, which includes an easy-to-navigate-and-search-entry, and may also include videos, embedded datasets, downloadable datasets, interactive questions, audio content, and downloadable tables and resources.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	00	Author: Kimberly A Neuendorf Pub.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	00	Date: 2019 Product: Sage Research Methods DOI: https://doi.org/10.4135/9781071802878 Methods: Content analysis, Measurement, Coding Keywords: surveying Disciplines: Business and Management, Communication and Media Studies, Political Science and International Relations, Psychology, Social Policy and Public Policy, Sociology Access Date: November 23, 2023 Publishing Company: SAGE Publications, Inc City: Thousand Oaks Online ISBN: 9781071802878 © 2019 SAGE Publications, Inc All Rights Reserved.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	An Integrative Approach to Content Analysis As noted in the first chapter, this book takes the view that quantitative content analysis should be considered a research technique that conforms to the rules of science.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Most closely related to the technique of survey research, content analysis uses messages rather than human beings as its units of data collection and analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Issues that apply include the criteria of the scientific method, including validity (internal and external), reliability, sample representativeness, the principle of maximum information (Woelfel & Fink, 1980), and objectivity (or intersubjectivity).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Before proceeding with a discussion of exactly how content analysis may be conducted to achieve these standards, a basic background on the ground rules and terminology of the scientific method is in order.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	The Language of the Scientific Method Undergirding the various criteria for the scientific method is an assumption that research investigations are nomothetic—that is, the goal is to develop generalizations about phenomena.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	The role of theory is to provide roadmaps for these generalizations.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	The old maxim “There is nothing so useful as a good theory” implies that proper theory-building will result in patterns of knowledge that may be generalized across time, across cultures, and across various other substantive boundaries.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Theories in the social and behavioral sciences tend to address human cognition, affect, and/or behavior.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Few theories address messages directly, leaving content analysis with limited efficacy for theory testing and theory building.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	However, as we shall see, when integrated properly with additional evidence, content analysis findings can be useful building blocks for theory.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	It is also important to understand that research hypotheses and research questions are most fruitfully derived from theories and that these hypotheses and questions in turn dictate the methodologies chosen to test or address them.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	For example, a theory about the inner cognitive mechanisms of the comprehension of spatial relations would need to be tested with methods appropriate to the measurement of cognition and spatial knowledge; content analysis would not be a primary method here.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	01	Rather, experimental techniques, including physiological measures, such as eye tracking or brainwave measures, would be likely candidates.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	A theory about the impact of repeated exposure to consistent images of family interaction behaviors might be tested with a combination of experiments and surveys to gauge impact and content analyses to check consistency Page 2 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	of images available in the public sphere.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Again, it should be remembered that theory leads to hypotheses/ research questions, which lead to appropriate methods for testing.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Whether explicitly stated or not, a primary goal of most scientific studies is to identify causal relationships.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	That is, we hope to discover at least one causal agent (X) that leads to at least one outcome (Y).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Establishing a cause-and-effect relationship is rarely (many would say never) achieved in social and behavioral scientific study; it is almost impossible to meet all three criteria for causality: (a) a relationship, (b) time ordering (such that X precedes Y in time), and (c) the elimination or control of all alternative explanations.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	The second criterion—time ordering—requires either a study that has two or more measurement points over time (a longitudinal study) or an experiment.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	The third criterion—accounting for all alternative explanations—is generally impossible to fully achieve.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	However, the goal is to do the most complete job possible, identifying and measuring as many control variables as possible.1 Given that the discovery of true causality is essentially an unattainable goal, we do not refer to “cause” and “effect.” Rather, we refer to each “presumed cause” as an independent variable and each “presumed effect” as a dependent variable.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	A variable is a definable and measurable construct that varies; that is, it holds different values for different individual cases.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	For example, we may predict that gender is related to interrupting behavior, such that males will interrupt conversations more often than will females.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Each case (person, in this example) will hold a certain value on the independent variable (male or female) and a certain value on the dependent variable (e.g., 4 times in 5 minutes, 12 times in 5 minutes).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	These values must vary across cases or there exists no variable for study; for instance, if all persons in the study are male, no comparison may be made with females, and therefore “gender” does not exist in the study as a variable, and we could not assess the impact of gender on interrupting behavior.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	In this example, gender is the independent variable and interrupting behavior the dependent variable.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	In a hypothesis, we might predict that one’s gender has an impact on one’s interrupting behavior; the converse is clearly impossible in this case.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	The main empirical, quantitative methods available to the social or behavioral scientist to investigate hypotheses or research questions about possible relationships between independent and dependent variables are the experiment and the survey.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	A true experiment is an investigation in which at least one independent variable is manipulated or controlled (Campbell & Stanley, 1963).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	A survey is a study in which an attempt is made to measure all variables—independent and dependent—as they naturally occur.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Note the simplicity of these definitions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	Despite common expectations, an experiment does not have to take place in a laboratory setting (although many do).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	02	And a survey does not have to consist of a questionnaire (although most do).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	An experiPage 3 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	ment could be conducted in a “real” setting, such as a workplace.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	For example, a researcher might randomly assign employees in an organization to types of working conditions (e.g., face-to-face work teams vs.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	virtual, online work teams), and then outcome variables could be measured; this type of study is commonly referred to as a field experiment.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Most surveys do involve the use of a questionnaire—that is, a set of questions that are presented to a set of respondents either as a self-administered booklet, as an online set of questions, or in an interview.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	However, many experiments also use a questionnaire, especially to measure dependent variables and control variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Further, a survey that does not use a questionnaire is quite possible—it might involve direct observation of behavior, such as observing and tabulating a child’s play behavior.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Although the “self-report” nature of the study has been eliminated, it’s important to note that the observation process also relies on subjective human reportage—in this case, a human observer–coder of others’ behavior.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	As we shall see, this involvement of humans in the measurement process is of great concern in content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	The relative advantages and disadvantages of these two research approaches—experiment and survey—are clear.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	An experiment generally enjoys a high degree of control and certainty about the validity of the independent variable(s) but is often artificial in its execution (i.e., higher on internal validity and lower on generalizability, which is sometimes called external validity).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	A survey is more true to life and tends to be more generalizable as long as probability sampling is employed, but its measures are more suspect, especially when they rely on self-report responses (i.e., higher on generalizability or external validity and lower on internal validity).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Most scholars agree that the “best” approach is one of triangulation—that is, testing for a hypothesized relationship among the same variables with a variety of methods—experiments, surveys, and other, more qualitative methods.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	The various methods’ strengths and weaknesses tend to balance out, and if all the various methods reveal similar findings, the support for the hypothesis is particularly strong.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Content analysis as a stand-alone research method is consistent with the goals and standards of survey research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	In the typical content analysis, an attempt is made to measure all variables as they naturally or normally occur.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	No manipulation of independent variables is attempted.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Some type of probability sampling of the units of data collection is typical, making the findings generalizable to a larger grouping or population of messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	Note that the units of data collection are simply different from those of the typical survey (i.e., messages rather than persons).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	03	The question of internal validity for the measures in a survey also applies to the content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Just as the self-report nature of most surveys calls into question the objectivity and validity of their measures, so too the involvement of human decisions in the content analysis coding process calls into Page 4 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	question the validity of the coding scheme.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	In short, content analysis tends to enjoy the typical advantages of survey research and usually suffers its drawbacks as well.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Human Coding Versus Computer Coding: A Brief Overview There are two main types of quantitative content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Human coding involves the use of people as coders, with each using a standard codebook and coding form to read, view, or otherwise decode the target content and record his or her objective and careful observations on preestablished variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Computer coding involves the automated tabulation of variables for target content that has been prepared for the computer.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Almost always, computer coding means using software that analyzes a set of text, counting key words, phrases, or other text-only markers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	The term CATA has been adopted to designate this popular use of “computer-aided text analysis.” The advantages to CATA include the assumed perfect reliability, while human coding requires rigorous training and careful coding scheme development to achieve intercoder reliability.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	On the other hand, the lack of direct human contact in the CATA process often leaves us questioning the validity of the automatically applied measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	As Grimmer and Stewart warn, “There are pitfalls to using automated methods—they are no substitute for careful thought and close reading and require extensive and problem-specific validation” (2013, p 267).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	A number of studies have directly compared human coding with CATA coding.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Conway used both processes in his study of newspaper coverage of a political campaign and found significantly different results.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	He concluded that in CATA, “several subjective steps must be taken to adapt the content to the program.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Those decisions can be arbitrary and fall outside the concept of traditional intercoder reliability” (2006, p 186).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	Chapter 5 presents some examples of codebooks and coding forms for human coding and dictionaries for computer coding via CATA.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	04	More examples are available at The Content Analysis Guidebook Online (CAGO).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	How Content Analysis Is Done: A Flowchart for the Typical Page 5 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	Process of Content-Analytic Research As a form of scientific endeavor, content analysis ought to be conducted in line with procedures appropriate to good science.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	Box 2.1 contains a flowchart of the typical process of content analysis, with nine steps outlined.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	The model follows the common steps for research in the scientific method, applying appropriate terminology for content analysis whenever needed.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	Subsequent chapters will explore the steps: Steps 1 through 3 are treated in Chapter 4; Step 4, coding, is included in Chapter 5; Step 5, sampling, is the subject of Chapter 3; Steps 6 through 8 are addressed in Chapter 6; and Step 9, tabulation and reporting, is dealt with in Chapter 8.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	05	An important distinction apparent in the flowchart is the splitting of human coding from computer coding (CATA) at two junctures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	06	Box 2.1 A Flowchart for the Typical Process of Content Analysis Research Page 6 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Page 7 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Approaches to Content Analysis This book presents the view that content analysis is best approached as one tool for testing relationships within a basic communication perspective.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Aristotle’s tripartite rhetorical analysis (focusing on speaker, speech, and audience; Miller, 1987) is the precursor to the classic 20th-century Shannon–Weaver model (Shannon & Weaver, 1998), which provides the basic framework of source, message, channel, and receiver.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Based on this, Berelson (1952) proposed five purposes for content analysis: (a) to describe substance characteristics of message content (essentially what are described in Chapter 1 as content/substance characteristics), (b) to describe form characteristics of message content, (c) to make inferences to producers of content, (d) to make inferences to audiences of content, and (e) to determine the effects of content on the audience.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	The view presented in this book deviates somewhat from Berelson, finding it inappropriate to make conclusions about source or receiver on the basis of an analysis of message content alone.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Carney (1971) expresses the view that there are three uses of content analysis: descriptive, hypothesis testing, and facilitating inference.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	This book’s presentation is consistent with Carney’s view, extending it somewhat to include the consideration of extramessage variables—that is, variables measured on message source or message receiver units.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	This chapter develops an integrative model of content analysis, which recognizes that whereas content analysis itself can only describe message characteristics or identify relationships among message characteristics, its methods are integral to a fuller understanding of human communication behavior and hence essential to social and behavioral science.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	When combined with results from other studies that use individuals as units of inquiry (or other source or receivers units; Shoemaker & Reese, 1990), content analysis can provide important missing links in multistep models of human communication behavior and of audience responses to mediated communication.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Thus, whereas Berelson says that we may infer source characteristics or intent from examining message content, this book argues instead for the integration of content analytic studies with studies of sources that give empirical evidence of source characteristics or intent.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	The goals of science are typically presented as description, prediction, control, and explanation.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	Only with an integrated approach to data collection can applications of content analysis aspire to the highest goal, that of explanation.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	07	To date, the most common approaches to content analysis may be labeled as descriptive, inferential, psychometric, and predictive.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	These are general labels that have been ascribed to content analytic works and are not to be seen as a true typology—that is, the designations may overlap, and practitioners of the various Page 8 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	brands of content analysis often disagree as to their applications.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	Descriptive Content Analysis Many content analyses describe a particular message pool in almost archival fashion.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	Researchers working in this vein are careful to limit their conclusions to the content being studied, although they may clearly be motivated by a desire to infer characteristics to the source(s) or to anticipate receiver outcomes of the messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	These descriptive analyses are attractive in their clarity and parsimony.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	But they sometimes seem to be targets for those who question the scientific importance or sophistication of content analysis as a method.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	An example of descriptive content analysis would be the Kaiser Family Foundation’s longitudinal research tracking sexual content in US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	television programming (Kunkel et al., 2001; Kunkel et al., 2005; Kunkel et al., 2007).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	Whereas its origins are clearly in a concern over the effects of sexual content on viewers, the project never overstates its conclusions—they are purely content based.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	The project’s rich complement of content analytic variables allows for varied and detailed analyses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	Key findings include an identified near-doubling in sexual content between 1998 and 2005 (from 56% of all TV shows in 1998 to 70% in 2005, and from 3.2 sex-related scenes per hour in 1998 to 5.0 in 2005), an increase in casual sex (from, in 1998, 7% of all acts of intercourse occurring between individuals who have just met to 15% in 2005), and the relative rarity of mentions of risks or responsibilities (only 14% of all shows containing sex).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	Another example of a descriptive content analysis is the Screen Actors Guild-sponsored analysis of primetime television programming, the African American Television Report (Robb, 2000).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	A team led by Darnell Hunt at the University of Southern California examined a sample of 384 episodes of 87 prime-time series on the six broadcast networks, identifying a total of 6,199 characters.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	The study found that although African Americans comprised 12.2% of the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	population at the time of the data collection, they accounted for about 16% of the characters.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	This “overrepresentation” was more marked in situation comedies, with more than half (50.5%) of all Black characters appearing in sitcoms.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	08	In another study, Kian, Mondello, and Vincent’s (2009) main research questions were “How much coverage of women’s and men’s basketball was provided by Internet sport media outlets during March Madness?” and “What types of descriptors did Internet sportswriters use when writing about NCAA Division I women’s and men’s basketball tournaments?” These questions were answered with detailed reporting on 249 articles appearing on CBS SportsLine or ESPN, 27.7% of which focused on women’s basketball.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	A total of 7,344 Page 9 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	gender-specific descriptors were coded, with a finding of significant differences between stories focusing on women’s and men’s basketball with regard to physical appearance/attire (more mentions for men) and psychological/emotional strength (more mentions for women).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	But, no significant differences were found between the proportion of descriptors devoted to male and female basketball players in the categories of athletic prowess, athletic weaknesses/limitations, negative skill level/failures, psychological/emotional weaknesses, or humor.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	As this example points out, it needs to be understood that descriptive here does not necessarily mean univariate—that is, describing results one variable at a time.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	There might be—and often should be—a predicted relationship among variables measured in the content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Other good examples include Dixon and Linz’s (2000, 2002) studies of television news coverage of lawbreakers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	They found a significant relationship between the race of the perpetrator and whether the crime reported was a felony (2000).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Thus, the bivariate (two-variable) relationship would be the following: Race of perpetrator → Type of crime (felony or nonfelony) They also found race of the defendant to be related to the amount of prejudicial information in a newscast (2002), with Blacks and Latinos twice as likely to be associated with prejudicial content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Here, the bivariate relationship of variables within the content analysis is this: Race of defendant → Presence of prejudicial statements Thus, a descriptive content analysis is one in which all variables analyzed are measures from within the content analysis, without attempts to infer or predict to source variables or receiver variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Inferential Content Analysis As noted earlier, the view presented in this book does not endorse most explicit inferences made strictly from content analysis results, a view consistent with early admonitions by Janis (1949).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Counter to this view, Berelson’s (1952) 60+-year-old encouragement continues to be invoked in cases where researchers wish to make conclusions about sources or receivers solely from content-analytic studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	09	Yet such unbacked inferences are inconsistent with the tenets of the philosophy of science—it is important to note that they are not empirically based.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Page 10 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	From casual observation (i.e., not a systematic investigation), it seems that psychological or interpersonal communication-type content analyses (especially those with known receiver[s]) tend to try to infer to the source, whereas mass communication-type studies (with undifferentiated receivers) tend to attempt to infer to receivers or receiver effects or both.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Clearly, there is great interest in going beyond description of messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	As we will see, there are alternatives to nonempirical inference (what will be called here the “integrative” model of content analysis).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Psychometric Content Analysis A type of content analysis that seems to have experienced a steady growth in both prevalence and reputation within the discipline of psychology is that of psychometric content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	This method seeks (a) to provide a clinical diagnosis for an individual through analysis of messages generated by that individual (typically called clinical content analysis) or (b) to measure a psychological trait or state through message analysis (often referred to as thematic content analysis; eg., Smith, 1992).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	These applications of content analysis should be seen as going beyond unwarranted inference in that the measures are validated against external standards (i.e., measures on the sources of messages similar to those currently being content analyzed).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Clinical Content Analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	For clinical content analysis, the notion of criterion validity seems particularly appropriate in that the goal is to infer from verbal messages to an individual’s clinical psychiatric status, thus providing a clearly targeted “criterion.” As articulated by Carmines and Zeller (1979), criterion validity requires a careful assessment in which content analysis is linked with other time-honored diagnostic methods, such as observations of the subject’s pathological behavior (the criterion).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Over a series of investigations, the content analysis dictionaries (sets of words, phrases, terms, and parts of speech that are counted up in a sample of the subject’s speech or writing) are refined to improve their correspondence with older clinical diagnostic and psychometric techniques, as in the work of Gottschalk and colleagues (Gottschalk, 1995; Gottschalk, 2007; Gottschalk & Bechtel, 2008).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	They developed a massive human coding scheme (Gottschalk & Gleser, 1969) that was intended to detect a range of psychiatric pathologies, including depression, schizophrenia, mutilation anxiety, and autism.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Later, the coding process was computerized as the Psychiatric Content Analysis and Diagnosis (PCAD) program (see Resource 1).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	10	Thematic Content Analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	As laid out by Smith (1992) in his edited volume Motivation and Personality: Page 11 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	Handbook of Thematic Content Analysis, thematic content analysis is intended to make inferences from the content or style of verbal material to “characteristics or experiences of persons or social groups” (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	1).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	So in its basic definition it seems to subscribe to the undesirable tenets of inferential content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	However, throughout the Smith volume, we see reportage of solid work to validate the various content analytic procedures with extramessage measures, allowing for the analyst to “infer” from an individual’s speech, via accumulated evidence, back to their psychological traits such as achievement motivation, power motivation, affiliative trust–mistrust, and conceptual/integrative complexity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	The term thematic reflects the technique’s origins in the Thematic Apperception Test (TAT; McClelland, 1984; from Murray, 1943), a method of extracting psychological constructs through the content analysis of storylike verbal material, usually collected from respondents as they react to an image or cartoon; however, later expansions on thematic content analysis have applied the technique to verbal content well beyond the strictures of the TAT (Smith, 1992, p 4).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	The ultimate goal is, for both types of psychometric content analysis, to be able to infer a given source’s psychological characteristics, pathological or otherwise, from unobtrusive text analyses without having to apply more invasive diagnostic or measurement tools to the source.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	But this is done only after collecting substantial, careful evidence of validation of the content analysis instrument (i.e., coding scheme or dictionaries) with measures acquired from message sources over repeated studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	Predictive Content Analysis This type of content analysis has as its primary goal the prediction of some outcome or effect of the messages under examination.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	By measuring key characteristics of messages, the researcher may aim to predict receiver or audience responses to the messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	This necessitates the merging of content-analytic methods with other methods that use people as units of data collection and analysis—typically, survey or experimental methods or both.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	An example of this type of study is Naccarato’s (Naccarato & Neuendorf, 1998) combined content analysis and audience study that linked key print advertising features to audience recall, readership, and evaluations of ads.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	Box 2.2 tells the story of the research process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	11	Another example is McQuarrie and Phillips’ (2008) study of readership preferences as related to print ad style features.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Their study used copy test data from the Which Ad Pulled Best? (WAPB) series, combined with content analysis data on six style variables for Page 12 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	the same ads tested via WAPB (n = 656).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Looking at copy test data and ads over time (1969–2002), the researchers found that more effective styles became more common over time, while those styles shown to be less effective became less common.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	In a series of studies linking media presentations of violent acts and aggregate crime and mortality statistics from archival sources, Phillips (1974, 1982, 1983; Phillips & Hensley, 1984; Phillips & Paight, 1987) established a long, distinctive record of research using simple predictive content analysis.2 He has examined the incidence of homicides after network news coverage of championship boxing matches, the incidence of suicides after newspaper reports of suicides, and the occurrence of deaths due to car accidents following soap opera suicides.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Although Phillips’s attempts to draw causal conclusions have come under criticism (e.g., Gunter, 2000), his research approach has shown robust, replicable relationships between media reports and depictions of violence and real-life events.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Another important type of predictive content analysis is the prediction of public opinion from news coverage of issues (e.g., Salwen, 1986).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Through a blending of content analysis and public opinion poll summarization, Hertog and Fan (1995) found that print news coverage of three potential HIV transmission routes (toilets, sneezing, and insects) preceded and was significantly related to public beliefs about those routes as expressed in polls.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Key details of this innovative and sophisticated study are reported in Box 2.3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Another unique example of predictive content analysis is presented by Smith (2008).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	She was able to statistically predict threat outcomes from features of the threat (i.e., message) itself.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	In this case, the message outcomes are not precisely receiver outcomes or effects on receivers, but in a way, source characteristics that then result in behavioral actions against the receiver.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Despite the possibly convoluted true causal path, the linkage of content analysis data and subsequent true behavioral data is compelling.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	The Smith study is presented in Box 2.4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	12	Box 2.2 The Practical Prediction of Advertising Readership After 20 years as an advertising professional, John Naccarato wanted his master’s thesis to merge theory and research with a practical application to his chosen field (see Naccarato & Neuendorf, 1998).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	In his capacity as a business-to-business ad specialist, he was accustomed to receiving reports from publishers and from other standard readership services regarding the level of readership for the ads he placed in business-to-business Page 13 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	publications.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	Privately, he had always asked what he called the “why” question: Why did one ad perform better than another? What was it about a given ad that attracted the reader? He settled on content analysis as a method of linking the already-accessible readership data with ad characteristics.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	In this way, he would be able to find out if certain ad attributes bore a relationship to readership scores.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	If so, although causality would not be verifiable, he could at least make predictions from ad characteristics.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	Only a handful of studies had tried to do something along these lines; only a few of these analyzed print advertising, and none had examined the business-to-business context (Chamblee et al., 1993; Donath, 1982; Holbrook & Lehmann, 1980; Holman & Hecker, 1983; Stewart & Furse, 1986; Wood, 1989).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	Naccarato’s needs were concrete—he wanted to find the best combination of ad variables that would predict reader response—but he did not ignore theory and past research in his collection of variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	From persuasion theories, he derived measures of the ad’s appeals (e.g., humor, logical argument, fear; Markiewicz, 1974).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	From earlier content analysis studies, he adapted indicators of form attributes, such as use of color, ad size, and other layout features (e.g., Gagnard & Morris, 1988).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	From practitioner recommendations found in advertising texts, he pulled variables such as use of case histories, use of spokespersons, and competitive comparisons.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	And from his own personal experience in advertising, he extracted such notions as the consideration of the role of charts and graphs in the ad layout.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	At the end of the process of collection, he had a total of 190 variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	Naccarato’s codebook and corresponding coding form were lengthy (both may be found at CAGO).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	As a result of combining variables and eliminating variables with low reliabilities or lack of variance, the final pool was reduced to 54 form variables and 21 content/substance variables for inclusion in analyses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	The population of messages was defined as all ads appearing in the trade publication Electric Light and Power (EL&P) during a two-year period.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	Sampling was done by issue; eight issues were randomly selected, with all ads in each issue included in the analysis (n = 247 ads).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	All the ads in EL&P during this time period had been studied via the publisher’s own readership survey, the PennWell Advertising Readership Research Report.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	This self-report mail survey of subscribers measured audience recall and readership and perceptions of the ad as attractive and informative.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	13	The survey sample sizes ranged from 200 to 700, and response rate ranged from 10% to 50%.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Page 14 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	With the unit of data collection and analysis being the individual ad, data were merged to analyze the relationship between ad characteristics and each of the four audience-centered dependent variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Stepwiseregression analyses were conducted to discover which of the 75 independent variables best constructed a predictive model.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	This approach proved to be fruitful.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	All four regression models were statistically significant.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Variances accounted for were as follows: for ad recall, 59%; readership, 12%; attractiveness, 40%; informativeness, 18%.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Significant independent variables varied by dependent measure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Ad recall seemed to be enhanced by use of a tabloid spread, greater use of color, use of copy in the bottom half of the ad, use of large subvisuals, and advertising a service (rather than a product).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Recall was lower with ads that were of fractional page or junior page size, that used copy in the right half of the ad, and that used a chart or graph as their major visual (rather than a photo).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Naccarato’s practical interest in predicting audience attraction to business-to-business ads was rewarded with some powerful findings and resulted in a caution against taking practitioner recommendations too seriously.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	In only a small number of instances did such recommendations match up with the study’s findings of what related to positive reader reactions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	For example, books by leading advertising professionals recommended such persuasive techniques as the use of a spokesperson, humor, calls to action, and shorter copy.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Yet none of these was related to any of the four audience outcomes.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	On the other hand, copy placement and use of fear appeals were important predictors that practitioners usually ignored.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	Thus, by linking message features with receiver response, Naccarato discovered specific form and content/ substance characteristics of business-to-business advertisements that led to recall, readership, and other indicators of message effectiveness.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	A logical next step would be to relate these findings back to the source level by constructing ads that incorporated all of the successful predictors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	14	These features could all be included in a real-life business-to-business service advertisement, thus making it a “perfect” ad, in light of the Naccarato and Neuendorf (1998) study results.3 More importantly, this example shows one of the many possibilities for applications opened up by an approach to content analysis that integrates extramessage measures (in this case, receiver measures).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Page 15 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Box 2.3 Approaching Causality—Does Press Coverage Cause Public Opinion? The prevailing view of news coverage by those who report it is that the news follows public opinion rather than leads it.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	That is, the public agenda is first established and then news reporters simply pick up on evident trends and document them.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Many scholars have questioned this point of view, and numerous media effects studies have established the potential of media messages to change the opinions of individuals.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Hertog and Fan (1995) took the novel approach of tracking aggregate public opinion in light of overall news coverage on a singular topic.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Using techniques originally proposed in Fan’s (1988) book on computer text analysis of news coverage, they collected public opinion poll findings and content-analyzed news stories on the same topic over the same period of time.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	All stories pertaining to supposed AIDS transmission via sneezes, toilets, and insects in eight news sources (four major US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	newspapers, three news magazines, and the UPI newswire) were collected for the years 1987 to 1991.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	The 166 stories were human-coded for coverage of the issue—“pro” (e.g., representing the view that you can get AIDS from toilets) or “con” (e.g., representing the view than you cannot).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	The results of 23 National Health Interview Survey polls were available for the same period, all of which included measures of public perception of the likelihood of AIDS transmission in each of the three manners.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Data were merged by time period, with each poll representing one data point.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Using Fan’s (1988) ideodynamic model, the relative impacts of both pro and con AIDS transmission stories were assessed.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	For example, for both sneezing and insects, pro stories seemed to carry more weight than con stories, resulting in a significant change in public perception toward the erroneous pro viewpoint.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Importantly, Hertog and Fan (1995) used the Granger Causality Test to examine over-time relationships between news coverage of each AIDS transmission type and public opinion.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	For both sneezing and toilet transmission, they found news content to predict later public opinion.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	Public opinion did not predict subsequent news content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	15	With a relationship and time ordering well established, these findings perhaps come as close to establishing causality as we have seen in content-analytic research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Page 16 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Box 2.4 From Violent Words to Violent Deeds: Predicting Threat Outcomes in the FBI Sharon Smith, who retired as a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation after 25 years of service, was interested in applying her FBI experiences to her doctoral studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Her dissertation was a culmination of her worklife experiences, her scholarly interests, and her familiarity with a diversity of methodologies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	In the end, she successfully derived a statistical model predicting the occurrence of violent actions from threatening communications (Smith, 2008).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Smith used data from 96 cases of credible verbal threats investigated by the FBI’s National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Through interviews with investigating officers, she determined the outcome of each case: (a) A harmful action as threatened was carried out, (b) some action other than that threatened was carried out, (c) the threatener approached/stalked the target but did not commit a harmful act, or (d) no action was carried out.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Smith content analyzed the threats using a wide variety of human-coded variables and CATA dictionaries, using both Gottschalk and Bechtel’s PCAD 2000 program and Social Science Automation’s Profiler Plus.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	In initial analyses for the 43 cases in which the threatener’s identity was known, Smith found none of the social, demographic, or psychological characteristics of the threatener to be predictive of whether the threat turned to action.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Rather, final analyses showed an optimal set of nine message variables significantly predicting violent action.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Threat was more likely to result in harmful action when the threat had higher conceptual complexity (as measured via a Profiler Plus dictionary); denoted lower ambivalent hostility (as measured via PCAD 2000); did not use words indicating religious prejudices; used a polite tone; mentioned love, marriage, or romance; indicated a target/victim explicitly or implicitly; did not give the threatener’s real return address; was communicated through multiple mediums; and did not specify use of weapons.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	Smith’s work has provided guidance to the criminal justice and intelligence communities for their work in areas where information is often woefully incomplete and yet they must make speedy decisions on how to react to threatening communications.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	16	With her novel approach—combining message data and definitive subsequent behavioral data for sources—Smith has shown the critical potential of using content analysis predictively in situations where a brief message may be the only clue investigators have to go on.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	Page 17 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	Toward an Integrative Model of Content Analysis Expanding on this notion of predictive content analysis, a comprehensive model may be constructed, detailing the utility of content analysis as the key method for analyzing the message component of the full communication process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	To date, Shoemaker and Reese (1996) have been the most vocal proponents of integrating studies of media sources, messages, audiences, and media effects on audiences.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	They have developed a model of research domains for typologizing mass media studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	Their individual domains are as follows: A Source and system factors affecting media content B Media content characteristics as related to audience’s use of and evaluation of content C Media content characteristics as predictive of media effects on the audience D Characteristics of the audience and its environment as related to the audience’s use of and evaluation of media content E Audiences’ use of and evaluation of media content as related to media’s effects on the audience These scholars propose combining the five domains to produce a variety of broader domains of research, with domain A-B-C-D-E as the optimal “fully elaborated model of mass communication” (Shoemaker & Reese, 1996, p 257).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	Their model clearly distinguishes between message effects on audiences (E) and audiences’ more active use of media messages (D).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	The Shoemaker and Reese (1996) model can productively inform our discussion of integrating content analysis with additional data.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	Domains A, B, and C clearly address the utility of content analysis data and hold similarities to the integrative model proposed here.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	But key differences do exist.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	The Shoemaker and Reese perspective is in some senses more restrictive (in its particular application to mass communication research) and in other senses more expansive (in its consideration of modes of inquiry other than content analysis).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	The integrative model developed in this chapter is designed with the simple goal of focusing interest on the unique role of content analysis in social and behavioral science investigations of the communication process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	This integrative model of content analysis uses the basic Shannon–Weaver communication model (Shannon & Weaver, 1998) as a guide.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	17	That model, developed by mathematicians at Bell Laboratories in 1949, was designed to describe the flow of information in a mediated system and to mathematically model conditions for optimal system operation (e.g., to reduce noise).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	The original model consisted of the identification of the folPage 18 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	lowing elements: source, message, transmitter, signal, channel, noise, receiver, and destination.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	The model was readily adopted by social and behavioral scientists as a descriptor of the human communication process, with source “encoding,” receiver “decoding,” and “feedback” from receiver to source as key additions (Berlo, 1960; Schramm, 1954).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Despite its explication in a wide variety of studies over a 65-year period, the Shannon–Weaver model (Shannon & Weaver, 1998) has experienced surprisingly little adjustment for the changing information environment (e.g., Baran & Davis, 1995; Dominick, 2009; Schramm & Roberts, 1971; Straubhaar & LaRose, 1996).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	For example, current debate over what constitutes message and what constitutes channel when considering Web 2.0 (e.g., as when the channel “interacts” with the receiver, creating a unique message pool and mode of presentation for each session by each individual user; see Chapter 7) has not yet resulted in a popular revision of the model.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Generally, the Shannon–Weaver model (1998) is a paradigmatic framework for most scholars studying communication activity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	The integrative model of content analysis takes off where Berelson (1952) left off.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Rather than engaging in overt inference making from content-analytic information alone, the integrative model calls for the collation of content analysis message-centric data with other available empirical “extramessage” information regarding source, receiver, channel, or other contextual states.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	It requires that a content analysis study be examined within the framework of the basic communication model.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Although this may seem rather mechanistic, it provides us with a clear picture of what components contribute to our understanding of messages of interest, as well as the nature of the links between message variables and extramessage variables.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Using the Integrative Model of Content Analysis The integrative model of content analysis may be defined as “the empirical or logical linking of content analytic data with extramessage variables measured on source, receiver, channel, or message context characteristics.” The quality of the information from each component of the model (e.g., source, message, receiver) should be evaluated, as should the quality and strength of the links among the components.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	We might think of these links between message variables and source or receiver variables in terms of how closely tied the data are.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	18	Although the strength of the ties between data sets will vary, all attempts at collating content analysis data and extramessage data are improvements over simple message description and unwarranted inference to source or receiver.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Page 19 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	The difference between the integrative approach to content analysis and triangulation of methods should be clarified.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	As noted earlier, triangulation is the use of two or more different methodologies to test the same hypothesis or address the same research question.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	The integrative model instead generally uses different methods to measure separate components of one hypothesis or research question, better fitting the notion of the “mixed-method” approach to research.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Extramessage data and findings may come from studies using a variety of methodologies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	For source studies and data, the prime candidates are surveys and qualitative investigations.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Receiver studies tend to take the form of message effects studies and include surveys, experiments, and qualitative-effects studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	There are variations on these tendencies, as in the case of a content analysis serving as a method of measurement for dependent variables in a true experiment (e.g., De Smet et al., 2010; Strijbos et al., 2007).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Again, the integrative model of content analysis is in play when content analysis data or findings about messages are linked with data or findings from studies of (a) sources, and/or (b) receivers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	As noted earlier, source message linking seems most desired by researchers in psychology, interpersonal communication, and related fields, while message receiver linking seems most desired by those in the area of mass media effects.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	With regard to media effects and content analysis, Kunkel (2009) provides a cogent argument for the researcher, minimally, to consider the context of audience exposure patterns when planning a content analysis and, optimally, to link content analyses firmly with media effects studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Two types of “linking” within the integrative model will be explored here: (a) Data Linking, in which extramessage data are available and are matched with content analysis data in order to derive statistical relationships between source and message variables or message and receiver variables, and (b) Logical Linking, in which the researcher delineates a logical connection between the content analytic efforts and the additional research findings that either motivate or flow from the content analysis, without extramessage data that correspond precisely to the content analysis data.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	Integrative Data Linking In Integrative Data Linking, some unit(s) of analysis are isomorphic (i.e., the same) for content analysis and source or receiver data.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	19	This one-to-one correspondence allows for strong relationships to be established.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	The one-to-one link may be Type A, in which the precise messages analyzed in the content analysis are the same ones created by the sources under study or are the same ones accessed by the receivers under examPage 20 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	ination.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	An example would be the McQuarrie and Phillips (2008) study of 656 print ads, in which the very ads that were content analyzed were the same ads receivers responded to in commercial readers’ copy tests.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	Or the Data Linking may be Type B, in which the messages and sources or receivers are linked by a unit of analysis that is not a message under investigation—for example, if the messages and receiver characteristics are summarized and then linked by a time period, such as year, as in studies of news coverage and public opinion (e.g., Domke et al., 1997; Iyengar & Simon, 1993; Watts et al., 1999).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	Sometimes the linking units may be anecdotal or occasional—that is, every case in the content analysis is not matched with a case in a source or receiver study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	An example would be Andsager and Miller’s (1994) study of news coverage of a public issue, which they linked to intermittently occurring events in the sociopolitical environment for the period of 1982 to 1994.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	They found a connection between the level of newspaper coverage of RU-486, the so-called abortion pill, and events occurring in the environment that were likely to affect news coverage, such as the 1989 campaign by the National Organization for Women to legalize RU-486 in the United States and the 1993 Food and Drug Administration’s approval of testing RU-486 in breast cancer prevention trials.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	Integrative Logical Linking With Integrative Logical Linking, there are no one-to-one or occasional correspondences of units of analysis between content analytic data and extramessage data.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	Rather, there is an overall logical link between content analysis and other studies based on theory and/or the variables selected for examination.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	An Integrative Logical Link uses evidence from source or receiver studies to provide a rationale for a content analysis, or it uses a content analysis as motivation for source or receiver studies.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	For example, a set of studies on alcohol advertising found that two of the most common appeals in beer and wine ads (celebrity endorsements and sex appeals, as identified in a content analysis) were also significantly more attractive to teens than to older adults (as discovered in experimental studies of teens and adults, using newly created ads that were motivated by the content analysis; Atkin, Neuendorf, & McDermott, 1983).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	The integrative approach to content analysis is an essential method of establishing the role of content analysis in the investigation of the full framework of the communication process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	20	Examples that have linked content analysis data with extramessage source data and extramessage receiver data are considered in turn in the following discussion for both Integrative Data Linking and Integrative Logical Linking applications.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	Page 21 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	The S → M Data Link: Linking Source and Message Data In content analyses in the field of psychology, a link between source characteristics and message characteristics is very often desired.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	As mentioned earlier, for over a half century, Louis Gottschalk and colleagues developed methods of measurement of psychological dimensions (with biological roots) in children and adults, through the analysis of the substance and form of their verbal behavior (Gottschalk, 1995, p 3; see also Gottschalk, 2007; Gottschalk & Bechtel, 2008).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	The early studies especially provided strong and lasting links between source and message; they were designed to validate content analysis measures against more traditional evaluative procedures—self-report scales, physiological measures, and psychiatric rating scales (assessed by expert, trained observers).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	In one study, the researchers measured brain activity and cerebral glucose levels, as well as levels of hopefulness and hopelessness in verbal reports of dreams following REM sleep, non-REM sleep, or silent, waking mentation (Gottschalk, Fronczek, & Buchsbaum, 1993).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	They concluded that there are “different cerebral representations for hopefulness and hopelessness during each [of the three] state[s] of consciousness” (Gottschalk, 1995, p 14).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	21	Their study could be modeled as shown in the following figure, with Source representing source characteristics, Message representing message (within a channel) characteristics, and Receiver representing receiver characteristics.4 Data in this study were linked on the individual subject (person), a direct data linkage.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	Page 22 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	S → M Data Link Example #1: Gottschalk, Fronczek, & Buchsbaum (1993) In a study of interpersonal verbal behavior, Marche and Peterson (1993) refuted a substantial body of evidence indicating that males engage in the majority of interruptions when conversing with women.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	Their study looked at 20-minute structured conversations of 90 dyads, with same-sex or opposite-sex composition.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	With acceptable intercoder reliability, conversation interruptions were identified by human coders.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	Interruption behavior did not vary significantly by age, by gender of the interrupter, or by the gender composition of the dyad: Males did not interrupt more often than did females.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	22	The study could be modeled as shown in the following figure; data were linked by the individual subject/person.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	23	Page 23 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	23	S → M Data Link Example #2: Marche & Peterson (1993) An application to the group/organizational level is Schonhardt-Bailey’s (2016) volume on political deliberation in UK.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	23	parliamentary committee hearings, with a focus on economic policy.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	23	She employs a multifaceted methodological approach: (a) automated text analysis of verbatim transcripts of 36 hearings held between 2010 and 2015; (b) human coding of nonverbal communication within the hearings to gauge the role of “body language” in the deliberative process; and (c) elite interviews with MPs, peers, parliamentary staff, and Bank of England officials (to provide a robustness check for the text analysis and to tap the participants’ motivations in the committee hearings).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	23	A model of this study might appear as shown in the following figure (data are linked on the individual participant [person], a direct data linkage).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Page 24 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	S → M Data Link Example #3: Schonhardt-Bailey (2016) Studies that link content analyses with source studies seem to be a bit rarer in the arena of mass media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Shoemaker and Reese’s (1996) comprehensive volume on “mediating the message” is unique in its emphasis on the study of mass media sources and those source and structural factors affecting the production of media content.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Notably, they rely on the Westley and MacLean (1957) model of the news-gathering process.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	This model is similar to the Shannon–Weaver (Shannon & Weaver, 1998) source–message–channel–receiver model but with a notable addition—a “universe of possible messages” from which sources select (Shoemaker & Reese, 1996, p 34).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	But studies that investigate how sources make this selection are infrequent.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Shoemaker and Reese have summarized scores of content-analytic studies that clearly intend to infer back to source intent without source data.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	The news studies that do use source data include Farley’s (1978) study of magazine publisher gender and tone of coverage of the Equal Rights Amendment, in which female publishers produced more favorable coverage.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Another source-integrative study is Shoemaker’s (1984) investigation of special-interest and other political groups, in which she combined content analyses of The New York Times coverage of 11 political groups with survey data tapping US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	journalists’ attitudes toward those groups—the more “deviant” the journalists judged the groups, the less legitimately the publication portrayed the groups (Shoemaker & Reese, 1996, p 90).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	24	Some studies of news coverage have measured source organizational variables rather than characteristics of individual authors or gatekeepers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	For example, in a study of the impact of corporate ownership on Page 25 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	news reportage, Pasadeos and Renfro (1988) compared the content of the New York Post before and after its purchase by media mogul Rupert Murdoch.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	They found that Murdoch’s ownership signaled a greater amount of page space devoted to visuals and a more sensational coverage style.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	A content analysis that included a perfunctory survey of media entertainment sources was done by Smith (1999).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	Her study of character portrayals in female-focused films of the 1930s, 1940s, and 1990s included unobtrusive measures of the gender of key “sources” of the films—writers, directors, producers, and editors—as identified in film encyclopedic sources.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	Her findings included the identification of a somewhat surprising impact of female involvement behind the scenes, such that greater female creative control was related to a higher level of stereotypically feminine portrayals of women characters.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	Smith’s combination of unobtrusive measurement of a key source variable (gender) and content analysis could be modeled in the manner shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	Data were linked by film (a clear one-to-one data linkage, Type A).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	S → M Data Link Example #4: Smith (1999) Increasingly, studies that examine online content may also collect data about the online sources.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	An interesting, focused investigation looked at the web sites of a census of all 206 English-language wineries in Canada (Zhu, Basil, & Hunter, 2009), assessing the degree to which the wineries had incorporated e-commerce features into their business practices.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	25	The content analysis data were linked with a supplementary email and phone survey of 37 wineries regarding their integration of customer relationship management and/or supply chain management into their online functions.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	The study could be shown as shown in the following figure (the Page 26 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	unit of linkage was each of the 37 wineries for which source and message data were available).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	S → M Data Link Example #5: Zhu, Basil, & Hunter (2009) A study drawing on archival, publicly available information about the message source units under investigation—in this case, communities—linked those data with content analyses of community-based web sites (Casey, 2016).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	A broad set of standard indicators constituted a quality-of-life scale: economic, housing, and population figures from the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	Census Bureau, education figures from the state Department of Education’s web site, environmental markers retrieved from the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	Environmental Protection Agency’s web site, and crime statistics from the state Department of Public Safety were collected for each community.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	Findings included significant negative relationships between the community’s quality of life (QOL) and the degree of multimedia functionality and the number of visuals on the community’s web site.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	It seems that communities with high QOL do not feel the need to promote their community with attractive images and interactive functions, while those with lower QOL do.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	26	The study’s data-linking integrative approach might be modeled as shown in the following figure (data were linked by the unit of analysis, the individual community).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	Page 27 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	S → M Data Link Example #6: Casey (2016) The S → M Logical Link: Linking Source and Message Findings Although clearly most content analyses are motivated by some concern over source or receiver, an explicit recognition of this is not always forthcoming.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	The following examples of Integrative Logical Links between source and message are more explicit than most.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	A study of UK.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	TV news coverage of the 2003 invasion of Iraq (Robinson et al., 2009) provides an example of an Integrative Logical Linking study that uses a concern over source characteristics as a rationale and motivator for content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	27	Drawing on a sizeable literature on theoretic approaches to news coverage and media–state relations, the researchers followed a three-pronged approach to the study of journalistic positions—“elite-driven,” “independent,” and “oppositional.” Their content analysis confirmed a preponderance of elite-driven coverage, but with some evidence of the independent and oppositional positions, as could be modeled as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	Page 28 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	S → M Logical Link Example #1: Robinson et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	(2009) Snyder-Suhy et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	(2008) conducted a combined human-coded and CATA investigation of the accounts offered by male domestic abusers who had been court mandated to enter a violence control program due to a recent case of abuse.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	Using a human-coding scheme, the researchers looked at type of account, target of abuse, blame verbalizations, locus of control, and specifics in the description of the abuse.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	Using the LIWC CATA program, they also assessed 20 different LIWC dictionaries, including negative emotions, anger, anxiety, certainty, and family.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	Their largely descriptive content analysis was motivated by past evidence on the preconditions and correlates of domestic abuse.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	The model might be displayed as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	28	S → M Logical Link Example #2: Snyder-Suhy et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	(2008) Page 29 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	The M → R Data Link: Linking Message and Receiver Data When it comes to definitive linking of message and receiver data, most relevant studies seem to focus on mass media content and effects.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	That is, the concern over message effects is more clearly manifested in work on mass media and its consequences.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	Often, a goal in marketing and mass media research is to demonstrate an effect (e.g., greater audience attendance) of media message characteristics.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	For example, the Naccarato and Neuendorf (1998) study (see Box 2.2) could be modeled as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	Data were linked one-to-one (a clear data linkage of Type A); the unit of analysis is the individual ad, for which both content-analytic and survey data are collected.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	Note that the units of data collection were different, however (unit of data collection = ad for the content analysis, unit of data collection = person for the readership study).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	M → R Data Link Example #1: Naccarato & Neuendorf (1998) Similarly, in the case of Hertog and Fan’s (1995) study (see Box 2.3), the original units of sampling or data collection were also not the same from content analysis to receiver study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	Data were linked by time period in a data linkage of Type B; the unit of analysis was each of 23 time periods corresponding to 23 available National Health Interview Surveys between 1987 and 1991; the original unit of data collection was the news story for the content analysis and the individual respondent for the polls.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	29	The study’s integrative nature could be summarized as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Page 30 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	M → R Data Link Example #2: Hertog & Fan (1995) In a rather extraordinary study that ultimately linked pessimism in popular songs to the subsequent state of the US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	economy (really!), Zullow (1991) accessed publicly available data (public opinion poll findings and economic data) to link with his content analysis.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	This is also a great example of the high level of sophistication that content analyses may reach.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Both the coding scheme and the time series analysis demanded a certain degree of methodological and statistical expertise.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Zullow found that as pessimistic rumination (i.e., negative descriptions or evaluations of an event) in popular songs increased, consumer optimism declined.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Furthermore, he found that a decrease in gross national product (GNP) tended to follow.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	The flow from “bad vibes” songs to lowered GNP was found to occur over an average lag of two years.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Each data collection was sound: The intercoder reliabilities for the coding of song lyrics were good, and the consumer polls were the highly regarded Index of Consumer Sentiment, conducted by the Survey Research Center at the University of Michigan.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	The study may be diagrammed as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	30	Data were linked by time period (year).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	Page 31 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	M → R Data Link Example #3: Zullow (1991) Zullow (1991) has applied measures of pessimism and rumination in other contexts.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	In a human-coded content analysis of Democratic and Republican presidential candidate nomination acceptance speeches from 1948 to 1984, Zullow and Seligman (1990) found that the candidate who expressed more pessimistic rumination lost nine of ten times.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	Again, the study linked message characteristics and audience (receiver) responses in a clear and powerful manner.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	In another example of an integrative M → R data linkage, a thorough investigation of reality TV viewership linked content analysis with survey data that focused on 15 different reality shows (Baruh, 2009).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	Prior to the execution of the online survey, a random sample of episodes of the chosen 15 shows was recorded; composite episodes of the shows were content analyzed for 21 genre-related variables, including use of a “fly-on-thewall” filming technique, disclosure of personal information of 10 different types (e.g., drug use, mental health), positive and negative gossip, and full or partial nudity.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	The subsequent survey asked 550 respondents about their exposure to the shows, as well as demographic information and psychographic information that included an eight-item voyeurism scale.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	Scores on the many content-analytic variables were used as weightings for the respondents’ reality-TV exposure measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	31	While the researchers did find that the viewers’ “raw” total exposure score was significantly related to voyeurism (r = .24), they also found that including information about the content of the shows added to the relationship with voyeurism.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	Specifically, they found that four content features in particular contributed to reality programs’ voyeuristic appeal: The percentage of scenes using “fly-on-the-wall” perspective, the percentage of scenes in semiprivate or private settings, the percentage of scenes containing gossip, and the Page 32 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	percentage of scenes containing nudity (Baruh, 2009, p 205).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	The model for this research program could be shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	The unit of data linkage was the individual respondent.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	M → R Data Link Example #4: Baruh (2009) In a relatively rare example of linking interpersonal-communication content and receiver outcomes, Fukkink and Hermanns (2009) followed up their content analysis of recorded conversations on child help lines in the Netherlands with a survey of the children regarding their evaluation of the interaction.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	For the content analysis, they derived their scheme from the Dutch Kindertelefoon methodology, a national protocol for help line volunteers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	32	We could model the study as shown in the following figure (the unit linking the data was the help line conversation).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	Page 33 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	M → R Data Link Example #5: Fukkink & Hermanns (2009) The M → R Logical Link: Linking Message and Receiver Findings Boiarsky, Long, and Thayer’s (1999) study of children’s science television provides a clear case of an Integrative Logical Linking of message and receiver findings, using content analysis to test the prevalence of key message characteristics that have previously been found to be important to the receiver’s response.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	They chose three form characteristics that had been well studied in experimental work: content pacing, visual pacing, and use of sound effects.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	Past studies had found rapid visual or auditory change to increase children’s attention to television programming (in some cases, resulting in enhanced learning), but on the other hand had found rapid topic switching to inhibit children’s learning (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	186).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	The Boiarsky team was interested in finding out whether contemporary children’s programming that ostensibly had an educational goal—science programming—used devices that would maximize children’s learning.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	Their mixed findings indicated a high number of attention-gaining features (e.g., sound effects, quick cuts) but also rapid pacing (e.g., cuts rather than dissolves, very frequent topic shifts) that would tend to inhibit children’s learning.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	The study’s linkage with previous work may be diagrammed as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	33	Again, the content-analytic research and experimental studies, each well conducted in their own right, are linked only loosely by a logical M → R connection.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	M → R Logical Link Example #1: Boiarsky, Long, & Thayer (1999) Another example of a logical M → R link would be a 2009 study by Johnson and Holmes, who based their conPage 34 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	tent analysis goals on previous empirical tests of Bandura’s (1986, 1994) social cognitive theory as applied to learning of sexual behaviors and romantic relationships from film and television.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	Their content analysis of contemporary US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	romance comedies found contradictory patterns with regard to the information conveyed.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	The 40 romantic-comedy films depicted romantic relationships as novel and exciting, yet also emotionally significant and meaningful.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	The researchers concluded that adolescents will find these films informative as to the initiation of romantic relationships, but not with regard to relationship maintenance.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	“Films .
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	depict relationships as progressing quickly into something emotionally meaningful and significant.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	Adolescents using these films as a model .
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	are likely to be left disappointed” (Johnson & Holmes, 2009, p 368).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	The linkage may be diagrammed as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	M → R Logical Link Example #2: Johnson & Holmes (2009) A study of prime-time fictional television programming in the Netherlands from 1980 through 2005 (Emons, Wester, & Scheepers, 2010) was motivated by concerns over cultivation effects of gender stereotyping (Morgan, Shanahan, & Signorielli, 2009).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	Although some direct connections were implied between over-time trends in the programming and societal attitudes at large, the study stands mainly as an answer to questions of the message pool presented to the Dutch TV viewing audience with regard to gender roles.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	34	For example, the researchers found, from the content analysis of 163 Dutch programs and 253 US.-originating programs, that females tended to be shown as younger than men, were more likely to be involved in child care and household work, and were less likely to be shown in a job outside the home.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	The linkage used by this study Page 35 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	may be diagrammed as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	M → R Logical Link Example #3: Emons, Wester, & Scheepers (2010) The Growing Use of Integrative Studies To date, content analysis studies that engage in some sort of Integrative Data Linkage between message and source or message and receiver are the exception rather than the rule, although there does appear to be increasing acknowledgement of the value of such an approach (e.g., Collins, Elliott, & Miu, 2009; Howland, Becker, & Prelli, 2006; Maxwell, 2004, 2005) and a recent trend toward increased integrative analyses.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	In addition to the examples shown earlier, an interesting set of data integrative studies has begun to appear.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	Integrative Studies of News Media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	In addition to the Hertog and Fan study highlighted earlier, a number of studies have linked news media content to source or receiver factors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	Tandoc and Skoric (2010) matched a survey of 100 journalists with a content analysis of 2,330 news articles written by those journalists, for a data-linking S → M study.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	McCluskey et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	(2009) compared coverage of social protest between newspapers in two high-pluralistic communities and those in two less pluralistic communities, constructing a type of contextual S → M link.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	35	Druckman and Parkin (2005) combined comprehensive content analyses of newspaper coverage of a single US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Senate race with Election Day exit polling that measured specific newspaper exposure, candidate evaluations, and reported voting behavior, an M → R combo study (see also Druckman, Page 36 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	2005, which extended the content analysis to television coverage as well).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	And Wanta, Golan, and Lee (2004) collated data from a national US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	poll and content analysis of TV network newscasts to test the well-studied agenda-setting function of media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	They found that the more coverage a nation received, the more respondents felt the nation was vitally important to US.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	interests.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	In a study that examined the popularly held notion of the power of news parody, Morris (2009) content analyzed the “Indecision 2004” coverage by The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	He found the disparagement humor aimed at Republicans during their convention to be more based on policy and character flaws, and the humor aimed at Democrats to be focused on “innocuous physical attributes.” Analyses of panel data from the National Annenberg Election Survey found that exposure to The Daily Show was associated with increased negativity toward President Bush and Vice President Cheney.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Using Content Analysis to Develop Weighted Media Exposure Measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	In the current fragmented media environment, this particular application of content analysis seems likely to expand.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Similar to the study by Baruh (2009) noted earlier, Pardun, L’Engle, and Brown (2005) used content analysis findings to weight exposure measures.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	In this case, based on a survey of 3,261 seventh and eighth graders, their top TV shows, movies, music, web sites, and newspapers were content analyzed for references to sexual activity and related constructs.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	The weighted exposure measure, called the Sexual Media Diet (SMD) was found to be significantly related to adolescents’ sexual activity and future intentions to be sexually active, with movies and music the strongest predictors.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Zhang, Dixon, and Conrad (2009) also combined content analysis and survey data to construct a weighted measure, this time for exposure to thin-ideal rap videos.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	The researchers found no main effect of this weighted exposure on Black women’s own body image disturbance, but they did find an intriguing interaction effect, whereby for Black women with strong ethnic identity, viewing was related to less body dissatisfaction, and for Black women with weaker ethnic identity, viewing was related to greater body dissatisfaction.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Developing New Data Linkages Studies that link all three important components of the communication model—source, message, and receiver—remain rare.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	36	Some collected-research reports, such as the 1972 Surgeon General’s Report on Television and Social Behavior (Comstock & Rubinstein, 1972) have at least addressed all three.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	In that five-volume Page 37 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	report on media violence, the editors combined several television content analysis and effects studies with a chapter on source (e.g., interviews with producers, writers, and directors; Baldwin & Lewis, 1972).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	A contemporary example of how source–message–receiver data might be collated from readily available online information is Belt’s (2015) study of YouTube videos.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	He used a simple categorization of source (i.e., commercial, noncommercial) and recorded basic receiver responses (i.e., number of views, and “likes” and “dislikes”) on 71 political YouTube videos, which he also systematically content analyzed for numerous substance and form variables (e.g., candidate traits, encouragement to vote, political ideology, use of emotional appeals, humor, music).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Among his findings was the prediction that the most-liked videos were the ones most watched, those that did not encourage the receiver vote, and those that used humor.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Another interesting example is Paek, Hove, and Jeon’s (2013) “double” content analysis of YouTube antismoking videos (for content and for basic source attributes) and of viewers’ comments generated by the videos.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Researchers are encouraged to add source or receiver data collection to their content analysis studies whenever possible.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	While not forgetting theory as the primary motivator for any study, researchers might be alert to the potential for adding a content analysis to already existing findings regarding sources or receivers.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	For example, Solomon and Greenberg (1993) studied choices made by professional television property masters in their selection of furniture, clothing, and other props for TV commercials.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Their survey of 25 working professionals found evidence of high consensus in choices of props for characters of a particular social class and gender.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	A content analysis could confirm how widespread is this “collective selection among individuals responsible for constructing the ‘worlds’ present in television commercials” (p.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	17).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Sometimes, a critical mass of findings regarding the effects of certain types of messages may just be “waiting” for a content analysis to add information about the prevalence of such messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Meta-analyses, which summarize quantitative findings from a set of studies that have examined the same variables, are a likely source for such findings.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	For example, Fischer et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	(2011) conducted a meta-analysis of 88 experimental, crosssectional, and longitudinal studies on the relationship between media exposure and receivers’ risk-taking inclinations.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	Their pooling of 105 effect sizes, using more than 80,000 participants, revealed a positive connection overall (g = .41), as well as for the underlying dimensions of risk-taking behaviors (g = .41), risk-positive cognitions and attitudes (g = .35), and risk-positive emotions (g = .56).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	The relationship was observed across various media (e.g., video games, movies, advertising, TV, music) and different outcome measures (e.g., smoking, drinking, risky driving, sexual behavior).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	37	The effects were found to be stronger for active (i.e., video games) than for passive (e.g., film, music) media exposure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	While a number of content analyses have Page 38 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	examined the frequency and type of portrayals of such risky behaviors (e.g., Blair et al., 2005; Kunkel et al., 2001, 2005; Pfeffer & Orum, 2009; Primack et al., 2008), no studies have examined the full range of risky behaviors across the wide variety of relevant media.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	The Fischer et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	analysis confirms the relationship between media exposure and risk taking; now we may ask, what exactly is the message pool that is contributing to this potential effect? Researchers can use the road map provided by the Fischer et al.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	summarization to construct content analyses that will fill gaps in our knowledge base.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	Notes for Chapter 2 1.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	A control variable helps assess whether an alternative explanation to a true relationship between X and Y may exist.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	For example, we may wish to test whether an individual’s television viewing (X) leads to the individual’s aggressive behavior (Y), which we could diagram as X → Y Let’s assume that a simple bivariate relationship is found between X and Y What alternative explanations might there be to X being the cause of Y? There may be reason to believe that the level of aggressive behavior in the home (Z) may be related to both X and Y, most likely in one of the following ways: (a) X → Z → Y or (b) X ← Z → Y That is, perhaps (a) television exposure leads to aggression in the home, which in turn leads to an individual behaving aggressively, or (b) a climate of aggression in the home leads to both increased TV viewing and an individual in the home behaving more aggressively.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	In either case, X does not directly affect Y, and any relationship found between X and Y may be what we call spurious.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	Also, in either case, Z constitutes a mediating variable (Baron & Kenny, 1986) and therefore an alternative explanation for the (presumed causal) relationship between X and Y We might include a measure of Z in our study as a control variable.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	If, after including Z as a statistical control, a relationship between X and Y still holds, then Z may be eliminated as an alternative or competing explanation for the relationship between X and Y 2.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	38	More recently, Phillips’ work has examined fatalities as related to other, nonmedia factors, such as medication errors (Phillips, Barker, & Eguchi, 2008; Phillips & Bredder, 2002; Phillips, Jarvinen, & Phillips, 2005), living in or visiting New York City (Christenfeld et al., 1999), the symbolic meaning of an individual’s initials (Christenfeld, Phillips, & Glynn, 1999), whether death has occurred near Christmas and New Year (Phillips, Barker, & Brewer, 2010), and whether a person’s birthday has recently occurred (Phillips, Van Voorhees, & Ruth, 1992).
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	Page 39 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrkSage Sage Research Methods © 2017 by SAGE Publications, Inc.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	3.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	For the first edition of this book, a sample print ad was created that does just that.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	The ad, for a fictional product (the marine deterrent “SharkArrest”), may be found on CAGO.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	4.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	As a point of comparison, the typical nonintegrative (i.e., wholly descriptive) content analysis might appear as shown in the following figure.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	39	In this model, no data have been linked from either the sources of the messages or the receivers of the messages.
the-content-analysis-guidebook-2e-2	40	Descriptive Content Analysis Example: Dixon & Linz (2000) https://doi.org/10.4135/9781071802878 Page 40 of 40 The Content Analysis Guidebook pgbrk
